WELCOME EVERYONE TO
THE MARCH 22ND TWENTY TWENTY
THREE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING, I'M CANDICE BRYAN,
CHAIRPERSON OF THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN
THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE A
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS ARE
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL
EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE THREE
EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD
.
WE WILL ALLOW AN OPINION PARTY
TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT OR
OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THAT APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT
ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL KANDICE I AM HERE TO
GRANT HERE DAVE DAVE ALREADY OR
DAVE ALREADY HERE CHRIS MADIGAN
HERE JULIA GOOD GRACE WHITNEY
MIKE DANIEL DYMAXION HERE
CHRISTINA GUZIK HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM MOVING ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE AGENDA.
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOTION FROM DRAMA
THANK YOU.
SECOND SUPPORT SECOND FROM DAVE
THANK YOU ALL IN FAVOR SAY AY
AY OPPOSED MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
DECEMBER 7TH.
TWENTY TWENTY TWOS MEETING WERE
THERE ANY QUESTIONS COMMENTS,
CORRECTIONS ON THOSE MINUTES?
IF NOT, DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE DEC MINUTES.
THANK YOU CHILD SUPPORT SUPPORT
FROM CHRIS THANK YOU ALL IN
FAVOR SAY I FIND A POST.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS
OUR FIRST UP IS PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY TWO DASH TWO ZERO TWO
EIGHT 1710 IRONROAD JOHN THIS
IS 1710 GUARAN AND SENIOR
PLANNER JEFF WILL BE PRESENTING
THIS PETITION THIS EVENING.
THANKS JOHN.
I'D LIKE TO START OFF WITH A
LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND.
ARE YOU ABLE TO BRING UP ANY
OF THE IMAGES?
THAT'S A GOOD IMAGE TO START
WITH THE PETITIONER OF THIS
PROJECT IS ROBERTSON BROTHERS
HOMES AND THEY HAD PROPOSED A
FOUR HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FOUR
UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT WITH A
ARE FOR A ZONING DISTRICT
DURING THE COURSE OF THE SITE
PLAN REVIEW IT WAS DETERMINED
THAT THEY DID NOT HAVE AN
ADEQUATE AMOUNT OF OPEN SPACE.
THE CITY REQUIRES SIXTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE SITE BEING B IN
THE FORM OF OF OPEN SPACE.
SO AT THAT POINT THEY DECIDED
TO REMOVE UNITS ALONG THE
NORTHERN PANHANDLE OF THE SITE
AND WHICH JOHN IS INDICATING
WITH HIS CURSOR AND ADD ELEVEN
ACRES OF LAND ALONG PONTIAC
TRAIL TO CONNECT TO THE SITE
AND JOHN IS CIRCLING THAT AREA
NOW THAT ADDITIONAL SEVEN ACRES
THAT THEY HAVE ACQUIRED AND
THEY HAVE ANNEXED WILL BE ADDED
TO A AN UPCOMING SITE PLAN
PETITION.
THE PETITIONER WENT TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR FINAL APPROVAL
OF THE PHASE ONE PETITION ABOUT
TWO WEEKS AGO AND RECEIVED
APPROVAL OF THE ZONING AND THE
SITE PLAN.
BUT THE SITE PLAN IS
CONDITIONED ON OBTAINING A
VARIANCE FROM THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AS I THINK YOU ALL
KNOW WE HAVE BOTH A MINIMUM
FRONT SET BACK REQUIREMENT IN
THE R FOR A AS WELL AS A
MAXIMUM.
THE INTENT OF THAT IS TO ENSURE
THAT FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS ARE MORE PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY, ARE LOCATED CLOSER TO
A SIDEWALK TO PROVIDE NON
MOTORIZED USERS AN EASY, EASIER
TIME ACCESSING THE SITE.
AND SO AFTER THE PETITIONER
REMOVED THOSE UNITS ALONG THE
NORTHERN PANHANDLE, THEY WERE
THEY WERE NO LONGER CONSISTENT
WITH OUR MAXIMUM SET BACK
REQUIREMENT THEREBY REQUIRING A
VARIANCE JOHN, YOU WANT TO SEE
IF THERE ARE ANY OTHER SLIDES
HERE?
THIS IS THE AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH.
THE THE HIGHLIGHTED AREA IS
1710 DAVOREN ROAD.
IT DOES CURRENTLY HAVE A
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
RANCH HOME ON THE SITE.
THIS PROPERTY HAS BEEN ACQUIRED
BY ROBERTSON BROTHERS HOMES.
THIS IS THE SURVEY THE BOUNDARY
TAUPO SURVEY.
WE'RE GOING TO SEE IF WE CAN
PULL UP THE SITE.
WHY DON'T YOU HOLD HOLD THIS
ONE.
THIS THIS IMAGE GIVES SORT
OF THE BEST VIEW OF WHAT'S
BEING PROPOSED ON THE SITE IN
IN A GREEN AREA IN THE UPPER
RIGHT CORNER IS AN EXISTING
LANDFILL A LITTLE FURTHER SOUTH
,JOHN, WITH THAT BIG OPEN
SPACE AREAS JUST TO THE RIGHT
OF THE CURSOR.
THERE IT IS.
THAT'S AN EXISTING LANDFILL
THAT USED TO BE OWNED BY THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
SO THEY'RE NOT PROPOSING ANY
DWELLING UNITS THERE YOU CAN
SEE THAT THEY'RE SHOWING ACCESS
TO THE SITE FROM BOTH ON TRAIL
TO THE WEST AS WELL AS TO
DVORIN ON THE NORTH.
AND SO WHAT IS SO THIS IS AN
IMAGE OF THE SITE PLAN THAT WAS
RECENTLY APPROVED BY CITY
COUNCIL SUBJECT TO OBTAINING A
VARIANCE FOR THE MAXIMUM SET
SETBACK ONCE OR WITH THE
PETITIONERS PLANNING ON DOING
IS ADDING THE ADDITIONAL
PROPERTY ON THE ON THE WEST
SIDE OF THE SITE?
JOHN, IT'LL BE DOWN IN THAT
CORNER.
EXACTLY EXACTLY THAT THOSE
THREE PARCEL OR THE PROCESS
OF BEING ADDED TO THE SITE PLAN
WHICH WOULD PROVIDE ENOUGH OPEN
SPACE FOR THE PETITIONER TO
REINSTALL THE DWELLING UNITS UP
ALONG THE NORTHERN PANHANDLE
AND MEET THE MAXIMUM FRONT SET
BACK REQUIREMENT.
THAT'S MY MAIN SUMMARY OF THE
BACKGROUND, JOHN.
I'M HOPEFUL THAT THE PETITIONER
IS ABLE TO JOIN US AND MIGHT BE
ABLE TO ADD ANYTHING TO THAT
DESCRIPTION.
THANKS, JEFF.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR JEFF OR JOHN?
TED?
YES, MR. COHEN, I HAVE TWO
QUESTIONS.
THE IMPRESSION I HAVE THIS IS
JUST A TEMPORARY SITUATION
DURING THE BUILD AND IN THAT
THE HOMES ARE BEING RESTORED AT
THE END OF THE PROJECT OR
SOMETIMES DURING THE PROJECT,
RIGHT?
YES, YOU ARE CORRECT.
THE PETITIONER IS IN THE
PROCESS OF SUBMITTING A PHASE
TWO WHICH WOULD INCLUDE THE
ELEVEN ACRES IN THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER THAT WILL ALLOW THEM TO
TO REINSTALL THOSE ADDITIONAL
THOSE UNITS UP ALONG THE
NORTHERN PANHANDLE AND MEET THE
CITY'S REQUIREMENT.
THE VARIANCE WOULD ALLOW THEM
TO HAVE A SITE PLAN THAT IS
ACTUALLY APPROVED WITH WHICH TO
BEGIN PULLING GRADING PERMITS
AND THAT THAT SORT OF THING.
SO I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT IT IS A
A TEMPORARY STEP THAT WILL BE
REMEDIED ONCE THE DEVELOPER
SUBMITS THE PHASE TO SAY
PLEASE, PLEASE ENTER MY SECOND
QUESTION SO ONCE THE PROJECT IS
DONE IT'LL BE COMPLIANT BUT THE
HOUSING MARKET HAS SOFTENED A
LITTLE BIT RECENTLY.
THIS IS A LARGE PROJECT.
WHAT IF IT GETS NEAR THE
PROJECT?
THE DEVELOPER IS GOING TO BE
UPSIDE DOWN FINANCIALLY.
THERE'S SOME WAY FOR THE CITY
TO HOLD THE DEVELOPERS FEET TO
THE FIRE SO TO SPEAK, TO MAKE
SURE THEY BECOME COMPLIANT.
THAT'S A JUST HYPOTHETICAL
QUESTION.
IT'S A POSSIBILITY.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT A ZERO
POSSIBILITY.
YEAH, WELL, ONE THING WE DO
KNOW IS THAT LAND IN ANN ARBOR
HAS A LOT OF VALUE FOR THIS
PARTICULAR DEVELOPER OR TO NOT
BE ABLE TO PULL THIS OFF
BECAUSE OF FINANCIAL
CONSTRAINTS.
MY GUESS IS THAT THERE WOULD BE
OTHER DEVELOPERS WHO WOULD BE
ABLE TO STEP IN THIS KIND
OF PROJECT TAKES YEARS AND
YEARS TO CONSTRUCT AND COMPLETE
IN ADDITION TO THE FOUR HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY FOUR DWELLING UNITS
THAT WERE PART OF THE PHASE ONE
SITE PLAN AN ADDITIONAL 120 OR
SO OR ARE PROPOSED TO COME IN
WITH THIS PHASE TWO IT'LL TAKE
A LONG TIME TO CONSTRUCT THOSE
UNITS AND HAVE THEM BE ABSORBED
INTO THE INTO THE MARKET.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR STAFF,
DAVE?
I HAVE A COUPLE QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE FORMER LANDFILL.
WHEN DID THE CITY RETIRE?
I'M AFRAID I DON'T HAVE AN
EXACT DATE.
IT WAS USED IN THE 1930S
THROUGH NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN I
BELIEVE.
ARE THERE ANY TOXIC WASTE
ISSUES WITH THE THE CONTAMINANT
THAT IS CURRENTLY AFFECTING THE
SITE IS METHANE.
METHANE IS A REFLECTION OF THAT
OF THE FACT THAT ORGANICS WERE
DUMPED AT THIS SITE.
IN OTHER WORDS THIS IS NOT JUST
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, RIGHT?
SO ORGANICS WERE CONSTRUCTED
THE PETITIONER IS PROPOSING A
VERTICAL WALL ALONG THE WESTERN
SIDE ALONG THE SOUTHERN SIDE
OF THAT LANDFILL TO ATTEMPT TO
KEEP THOSE GASES FROM MIGRATING
INTO OTHER PARTS OF THE SITE
AND THE DEVELOPER WILL PROVIDE
UNIQUE MITIGATION SYSTEMS FOR
ALL THOSE UNITS ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE SITE THAT THAT
COULD POTENTIALLY BE BE
IMPACTED AND THAT FORMULA
LANDFILL IS OWNED NOW BY THE
DEVELOPER.
IT'S NOT NO LONGER IS THAT THAT
IS MY UNDERSTANDING IS THERE
ARE THERE POTENTIAL USES FOR
THAT SITE FORMER LANDFILL NOT
NONE THAT WOULD BE RECOMMENDED
.
THE DEVELOPER ORIGINALLY
OFFERED IT TO THE CITY AS
PARKLAND AND WE SAID NO THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
SO THE DEVELOPER IS IS
PROPOSING A SERIES OF TRAILS
THAT MIGHT BE AVAILABLE FOR
RESIDENTS TO WALK THROUGH BUT
THERE'S NO CURRENT PLAN TO TO
REMOVE THE LANDFILL OR TO
DEVELOP ON IT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR STEPH?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE YOU MAY
COME FORWARD IF YOU ARE
ACCESSING REMOTELY I GUESS ON
YOUR RIGHT YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES TO MAKE A PRESENTATION
IF YOU'D LIKE.
SURE.
OF COURSE.
TIM LOFGREN I'M THE LAND
ACQUISITION DIRECTOR FOR
ROBERTSON BROTHERS HOMES SIX
NINE ZERO FIVE TELEGRAPH ROAD.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
TONIGHT.
I HAVE A PRESENTATION IF YOU'D
LIKE ME TO RUN THROUGH SOME
OF THE SLIDES I THINK JEFF DID
A VERY GOOD JOB EXPLAINING THE
SITUATION.
THE NEED FOR THE VARIANCE IS A
TEMPORARY NECESSITY IN THAT TO
HIS POINT THAT AREA WE DID NOT
HAVE ENOUGH LAND TO MEET THE
SIXTY FIVE PERCENT OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT UNTIL LATER IN THE
PROCESS.
SO RECENTLY WE DID GET THE
APPROVALS FROM THE CITY COUNCIL
FOR THE FIRST PHASE.
THE SECOND PHASE WHICH WILL BE
SUBMITTED IN ABOUT TWO TO THREE
WEEKS WILL SHOW BUILDINGS THAT
WILL MEET THIS SETBACK
REQUIREMENT.
WE ACTUALLY HAVE A NEIGHBORHOOD
MEETING THIS COMING MONDAY FOR
ALL OF OUR NEIGHBORS WHO WE'VE
BEEN ENGAGED WITH.
I MEAN THIS HAS BEEN A THREE OR
FOUR YEAR PROCESS ALTOGETHER SO
I'M HAPPY TO RUN THROUGH THE
SLIDES IF YOU WANT OR I CAN
ANSWER ANY OF THE QUESTIONS I
CAN ANSWER SOME OF THE
QUESTIONS THAT WERE WERE ASKED
PREVIOUSLY AS WELL.
SO I'LL LEAVE THAT UP TO YOU.
DO YOU GUYS WANT TO SEE THE
SLIDES SO YOU JUST WANT TO JUMP
IN IF IF HE THINKS THE SLIDES
WILL I'D LIKE TO SEE YOU OK.
YEAH GO GO AHEAD AND SHARE YOUR
SLIDES OK PLEASE TELL ME YOU'RE
SEEING THE VILLAGE VANGUARD
SLIDE.
YES PERFECT.
OK SO IT'S FIFTY EIGHT ACRES
NET THERE.
SIXTY SEVEN GROSS ACRES AND
PART OF THAT IS OBVIOUSLY THE
RIGHT OF WAY AND THEN THE
LANDFILL PORTION ITSELF WE ARE
NOT PROPOSING TO BUILD ON THE
LANDFILL.
WE HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH EAGLE
ON BEING ABLE TO PUT A WALKING
RAIL SYSTEM THROUGH THAT SO
THAT'LL BE SHOWN ON THE PHASE
TWO.
IT WON'T BE SHOWN ON WHAT I'M
SHOWING YOU HERE WHICH WAS PART
OF THE PHASE ONE APPROVALS
MASTER PLAN FOR US COST SEVEN
TO TEN UNITS PER ACRE AND WE'RE
JUST IN THAT BAND FOUR HUNDRED
EIGHTY FOUR TOTAL WHICH IS ONE
HUNDRED SIXTY FOUR FOR SALE,
320 FOR LEASE.
SO IT'S REALLY A WE CALL IT A
VILLAGE BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT
OF DIFFERENT OPTIONS FROM SIX
HUNDRED EIGHTY FOUR SQUARE FEET
UP TO EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND
FIFTY YOU KNOW KIND OF YOUR
ENTRY LEVEL AND THEN TO FAMILY
SIZE AND BOTH FOR RENT AND FOR
SALE.
I'M NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH ALL
THESE PROJECTILES BUT YOU KNOW
IT IS A VERY WALKABLE SITE.
WE ARE CONNECTING TO PARKS BY
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THIS.
THERE'S ACTUALLY NO ACCESS
RIGHT NOW TO LESSLIE PARK
EXCEPT FOR AN EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOOD THROUGH KIND
CIRCUIT CIRCUITOUS ROUTE.
SO WE ARE ADDING A NEW
COLLECTOR STREET SYSTEM TO GET
TO THAT PARK WHICH I THINK IS A
GREAT CONNECTION AND WE'RE
HAVING AN ALL ELECTRIC
COMPONENT OF THE SITE AS WELL.
JUST QUICKLY FROM A CONTEXT
PLAN AGAIN WE'RE DUVAN AND
PONTIAC TRAIL ESSENTIALLY
THAT'S THAT LARGE AREA IF
YOU'VE EVER DRIVEN BY AND
WONDER WHAT IT IS, IT'S YOU
IT'S BEEN SITTING THERE BECAUSE
IT'S GOT A LOT OF THE ISSUES
THAT WE'RE DEALING WITH FROM
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDPOINT THIS
AREA IF YOU CAN SEE MY CURSOR
IS THE LANDFILL AREA AND SHOW
YOU A LITTLE BIT MORE ON THE
SITE PLAN.
WE'RE NOT TOUCHING THIS AREA AT
ALL.
AGAIN, THE NEXT SITE THAT COMES
IN A COUPLE OF WEEKS WILL SHOW
WALKING TRAILS THROUGH THIS.
BUT OVERALL WE'RE ADDING IN
THIS COLLECTOR STREET SYSTEM TO
LESSLIE PARK THIS NEW STREET
WHICH WILL GET YOU UP TO
HOLSTEN PARK AND QUITE A BIT
OF OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS AS
WELL AS PART OF THE PLAN.
MOST OF THE RENTALS ARE ON THE
SOUTH SIDE ALONG WITH THIS
CLUBHOUSE WHICH IS OPEN ALSO TO
THE FOR SALE TOWNHOMES WHICH
ARE UP HERE.
THIS IS THE AREA THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TODAY.
THIS IS THE AREA THAT WILL BE
PHASE TWO ONCE WE ARE ABLE TO
ACQUIRE YOU DO HAVE THESE
ACQUIRED AND AN EXTENT WE'RE
ABLE TO HAVE ENOUGH OPEN SPACE
BECAUSE OF PURCHASING THESE
PARCELS TO BUILD ON HERE AND
WILL MEET YOUR SET BACK
REQUIREMENT.
PLUS WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS
GOING ON IN THE SITE, A LOT
OF OPEN SPACE.
SIXTY FIVE PERCENT OPEN SPACE
CONNECTIONS, MULTIPLE ENTRY
PRICE POINTS SO WE HAD SHOWED
THIS THIS SLIDE TO CITY COUNCIL
MIGHT BE MORE THAN WHAT I NEED
TO SHOW TONIGHT.
IT IS THERE'S A LOT OF A LOT
OF THINGS THAT WE'RE ADDING TO
THIS PROJECT SINCE IT IS SUCH A
LARGE PROJECT.
WE FELT WAS NECESSARY TO REALLY
KIND OF UP OUR GAME AND CREATE
A REALLY FIRST CLASS COMMUNITY
ONE MINUTE REMAINING.
THANK YOU EIGHT TO ZERO READY
MEANING A LOT OF THE MOST
OF THE COMPONENTS OF YOUR EIGHT
TO ZERO PLAN WOULD PUT A LOT
OF THOUGHT AND EFFORT INTO THIS
WITH NOT WITH THE NEIGHBORS MET
WITH STAFF WHO'VE DONE A LOT
OF RESEARCH.
SO WE'VE WE TAKE IT SERIOUSLY.
SO THAT'S CERTAINLY A COMPONENT
AND THEN A LOT SIDE
CONSTRAINTS.
SO THE THE DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
LANDFILL, YOU KNOW THERE IS
METHANE WE ARE GOING TO BE
PUTTING A METHANE TRENCH THAT
WILL ESSENTIALLY MAKE THE
REMAINDER OF THE SITE
BUILDABLE.
BUT WE WILL NEED PASSIVE
SYSTEMS AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
ADDITIONAL FOUNDATIONS SYSTEMS
TO WORK WITH PART OF THE AREAS
THAT WERE FILLED IN WITH
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.
SO IT'S A LOT LOT IS A BIG
PROJECT.
IT'S HARD TO DO IT IN FIVE
MINUTES.
BUT YOU KNOW THAT THAT IS WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH AND
THESE ARE THE PRODUCTS I'LL
JUST RUN THROUGH THESE TWO TWO
STOREY ATTACHED FOR SALE, THREE
STORY ATTACHED FOR SALE AND
THEN THE APARTMENTS AS WELL.
SO I KNOW I BLEW THROUGH THAT
BUT I'M I CAN ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU HAVE IS SPECIFIC
TO THE AREAS FOR THE PROJECT.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, IF THERE'S
ANYONE HERE IN PERSON, PLEASE
COME FORWARD NOW IF
FOR ANOTHER
TWENTY EIGHT HABERMEHL COURT I
REFER YOU TO MY LETTER THAT'S
IN YOUR PACKET WHAT YOU THINK
ABOUT THIS VERY LARGE PROJECT
IN GENERAL I SUPPORT NO NEED
FOR THE HOUSING AND THE DENSITY
IS APPROPRIATE AND AS YOU JUST
HEARD THIS IS A DIFFICULT SITE
TO BUILD ON.
YOU KNOW THE SPECIFIC PROBLEM
TONIGHT IS TECHNICAL.
THE PLAN DOESN'T MEET THE FORTY
FIVE MAXIMUM SETBACK
REQUIREMENT FOR THAT BECAUSE IT
NEEDED A LAND TO MEET THE SIXTY
FIVE PERCENT OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT.
THIS IS NOT A BIG DEAL AND
APATHETIC IF YOU WERE BLOCKING
THIS PROJECT I WOULD SAY GRAB
THE BEARINGS OPEN AND SHUT THAT
THIS PROJECT IS GOING FORWARD
ANYWAY.
THE PETITIONER AS YOU HEARD
FROM MR. KHAN RECENTLY ANNEXED
ANOTHER PART OF I GUESS ELEVEN
ACRES.
SO NOW CAN RESTORE THE
BUILDINGS TO THE PANHANDLE
CERTAIN BACK AND BRING THE
ENTIRE PACKAGE INTO CONFORMITY
WITH OUR YOU KNOW, I GUESS WE
HEARD FROM MR. LAWSON THAT PLAN
WILL BE SUBMITTED IN A FEW
WEEKS SO YEAH.
I MEAN IT'S EVEN WITH THAN MY
FACE TO PLAN AND BAIL FOR TWO
HUNDRED FOURTEEN MILLION
DEVELOPMENT TRIBE DISAPPEARED
MONDAY SO THE PETITIONER
ABSOLUTELY DOES NOT NEED THIS
VARIANT.
THE ONLY REASON THEY'RE HERE IS
TO GET A HEAD START IN
CONSTRUCTION SO THEY CAN START
EARNING A QUICKER RETURN ON
THEIR INVESTMENT IF YOU NO
LONGER YOU SECTION TWENTY NINE
SEE THE PETITIONER MUST MEET
ALL FOUR DIFFERENT CRITERIA TO
QUALIFY FOR A VARIANCE.
THIS INCLUDES B QUOTE THAT THE
ALLEGED PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES
THAT WILL RESULT FROM A FAILURE
TO GRASP THE VARIANCE INCLUDE
SUBSTANTIALLY MORE THAN MERE
INCONVENIENCE AND ABILITY TO
INSPIRE THEIR FINANCIAL RETURN
TO BOTH END QUOTE.
THE PLAN FAILS THE STANDARD
THIS IS ALL ABOUT GETTING
HEADSTART NOT A VERY BIG ONE
ACTUALLY AND THAT'S A GREATER
RETURN ON A PROJECT THAT WILL
BE GOING BEFORE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS A BY RIGHT
PROJECT PROBABLY WITHIN A FEW
MONTHS NO MORE LIKE HERE.
I DON'T LIVE CLOSE TO THE SITE
BUT BECAUSE OF 320 APARTMENTS
HERE WILL HAVE CORNICES
VILLAGES IN DIRECT
CONTRADICTION TO OUR EIGHTY
ZERO POINT CLIMATE ACTION PLAN
TO ACTION ONE IT CONCLUDES THIS
ASCENSION QUOTE ONLY
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS ARE DESIGNED AND
BUILT OPERATE WITHOUT THE USE
OF NATURAL GAS AND COAL INSTEAD
OF THREE ACTION TO QUOTE ALL
NEW CONSTRUCTION FROM TWENTY
TWENTY TWO TO TWENTY THIRTY AND
BEYOND IS BUILT A NATURAL
ENERGY STANDARD WHICH INCLUDES
NO NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION END
NICOLAU FOREIGN POLICIES EIGHT
TO ZERO READY THAT IS SCRAPPED
BY ANY MEASURE THERE.
I WON'T GO INTO IT BUT I WOULD
JUST SAY THAT CITIES IS
SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS
REVIEW THIS PROJECT IN JULY.
YOU CAN LOOK AT THE DOCUMENT
THEY WROTE QUOTE THE USE
OF FIELDS IN ANY CAPACITY GOES
AGAINST THE GOALS OF TO ZERO
UNQUOTE.
YOU HAVE TO BE 164 FOR SALE
HOMES THAT WILL BE WELL HAPPY
PLANTS WILL BE ELECTRIC AND
THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME STREET
LIGHTS POWERED WITH SOLAR
PANELS AND SOLAR PANELS.
BUT THAT'S IT.
THIS IS NOT ENVIRONMENTALLY
ALIGNED AND CORRECT GOALS FOR
THIS PROJECT WILL SOON GO
FORWARD WITH FOR ECONOMIC PLAN.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD
ACCELERATE THAT EVERY STEP
OF THE WAY RIGHT TO INSIGHT
EXPERIENCE AND I BELIEVE THE
PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY TO DO SO
.
THANK YOU.
DO YOU HAVE A QUESTION FOR
GOVERNOR?
I HAVE A QUESTION SO YOU MUST
BE A LITTLE BIT BUT I THINK THE
POINT IS THAT YOU'RE NOT
AGAINST THE PROJECT.
YOU'RE AGAINST AN ACCELERATING
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULES.
CORRECT.
I'M I GUESS YOU COULD PUT THAT
WHERE I DID.
YEAH, I'M I GUESS I'M AGAINST
GRANTING A VARIANCE THAT WOULD
ALLOW AND ACCELERATE
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE BECAUSE I
BELIEVE THIS PROJECT ON BALANCE
HAS
MET THE STANDARD FOR SORRY
I'M NEW TO THIS STUFF.
PUBLIC BENEFIT FOR A VARIANT
AND THAT'S A DEFINITE CALL BUT
I BELIEVE IN ANY CASE IT DOES
NOT MEET I POINT ON TWELVE C
THREE WHICH IS THAT THEY NEED
THIS THING WHICH EXACTLY
ACTUALLY THE ONLY ASKING FOR
BECAUSE THEY WANT A QUICKER
FINANCIAL RETURN THEY'RE GOING
TO GET THE PROJECT ANYWAY.
IT'S BEEN APPROVED BY THE CITY
COUNCIL CONDITIONAL ON
EXPERIENCE AND AND WITH THE SIX
HUNDRED PLUS UNITS IT'S
PROBABLY GOING TO BE APPROVED
BY RIGHT.
PATRICK PLANNING COMMISSION
WITHIN A COUPLE OF MONTHS.
SO I SAY LET'S WAIT LET'S SEE
THE WHOLE PLAN AND YEAH THIS
PROJECT HAS A LOT OF PROBLEMS.
WELL I'VE NEVER HAD TO ANSWER A
QUESTION FROM A COMMISSION
BEFORE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR WELL I DID.
I DID.
OH NO I'D LOVE TO TALK USUALLY
I'M THE ONE ASKING SO THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU FOR IS THERE ANYONE
ELSE HERE WHO WISHES TO SPEAK
ON THIS PETITION IF THERE IS
ANYONE ACCESSING REMOTELY YOU
MAY CALL IN 877 EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN IS THE
PHONE NUMBER AND THEN PRESS
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR
USE THE RAISED HAND FUNCTION IF
YOU'RE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK CALLER ENDING AND FIVE
THREE FOUR YOU WILL NOW BE
ALLOWED TO TALK IN THE MEETING
BEGINNING.
MY NAME IS PAUL PAUL PAUL LOWER
DOWN IN ANN ARBOR AND I'D LIKE
TO I TOLD THEM THAT RATHER THAN
SAYING WHETHER I THINK YOU
SHOULD APPROVE THIS OR DON'T
APPROVE IT, I REALLY TRUST THE
JUDGMENT OF THIS PARTICULAR
BOARD IN EVALUATING ITS
APPLICATIONS PER THE CRITERIA.
ARE YOU AND THE ACTC BOTH DO I
THINK A SUPER JOB ACTUALLY
FOLLOWING THE CRITERIA?
I DO NOT THINK THE COUNCIL NOR
PLANNING COMMISSION DO A VERY
GOOD JOB OF THAT AND I'VE GOT
MY THREE MINUTES DRAWING MY
OPINION OUT THERE ARE THE
REASONS I AM CALLING IN TO
SUPPORT THE CONCEPT THE
PREVIOUS CALLER SAID THE TERMS
OF OUR EIGHTY ZERO GOAL EVERY
APPLICATION THAT COMES BEFORE
ANY BODY AT THIS POINT IN TIME
SHOULD HAVE ALONG WITH IT A
MEASURE OF WHAT IT WILL COST
FROM THE CARBON THAT WE KNOW
WHAT THE REST INDUSTRY WILL
HAVE TO OVERCOME IN ORDER TO
GET OUT OF THE DEFICIT THAT NEW
BUILDINGS THAT ARE NOT
ELECTRIFIED THAT ARE NOT READY
FOR A NEW ZERO, THAT ARE NOT
GOING TO MEET OUR 2030 GOAL,
THE REST OF US ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO MAKE UP FOR THAT THAT
IS A NUMBER THAT SHOULD BE
CALCULATED FOR EVERY SINGLE
PROJECT.
I GUESS THAT'S GOING TO HAVE TO
BE PUT IN OUR CODE SOMEWHERE'S
REQUIREMENT AND I KNOW YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO DO THAT RIGHT NOW
AND I'M NOT REALLY HAPPY TO DO
ANYTHING IN RESPONSE TO MY CALL
RIGHT NOW EXCEPT THAT I WANT TO
RAISE AWARENESS AND IF WE
REALLY ARE SERIOUS AS A CITY,
MEET OUR WAY TO ZERO, GO TWENTY
THIRTY THEN WE NEED TO KNOW THE
MATH THAT WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO UP THE REST OF US ARE
SOMEHOW GOING TO HAVE TO MAKE
UP THE DEFICIT CREATED BY
PROJECTS THAT AREN'T A ZERO
COMPLIANT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
LISTENING.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS THAT WISH TO
SPEAK ON THIS PLEASE?
PRESS STAR NINE NO THERE DON'T
APPEAR TO BE ANY CALLERS AT
THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSIONS.
YES, I'M GOING TO BE VOTING IN
FAVOR OF THIS.
IT IS PERHAPS THIS TERM DOESN'T
QUITE FIT BUT IT'S SOMEWHAT
OF A CATCH.
TWENTY TWO THERE'S A PROBLEM IT
WAS SELF CREATED BUT IT'S GOING
TO BE SELF CURED.
SO I THINK IT'S A TEMPORARY
THING AND THIS IS AN EASY ONE
IN THAT SENSE.
THE SECOND THE CONCERNS ABOUT
THE EIGHT TO ZERO PROGRAM IS
NOT PART OF THE PURVIEW OF THIS
GROUP.
I THINK IT DROPS OUT IS
IRRELEVANT FOR US TO CONSIDER.
SO THIS THIS IS A PRETTY EASY
WAY FOR ME.
PEOPLE MAY HAVE OTHER BIG
CONCERNS OF THE PROJECT.
THEY SHOULD TAKE THEM UP TO THE
CITY PLANNING VOTE FOR A CITY
COUNCILOR.
THIS IS NOT THE APPROPRIATE
PARTY FOR THAT STUFF.
THE RECENT AND THE OTHER
DISCUSSION THAT'S COME IT'S OK.
I'M KIND OF TORN BY THIS IF WE
DO GRANT THE VARIANCE AND PHASE
TWO NEVER HAPPENS, THEN WE'RE
GRANTING THE VARIANCE TO NOT
COMPLY WITH OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT.
SO THAT WEIGHS WITH ME TO TO
VOTE AGAINST THIS BECAUSE IT
SURE DOES BECAUSE THEY THEY
DON'T HAVE TO EVER DO PHASE TWO
OR COME BACK WITH PHASE TWO.
IS THAT RIGHT, JOHN?
JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT THE
VARIANCE IS BEING REQUESTED FOR
A FRONT SET BACK MAXIMUM NOT AN
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT.
THE DEVELOPER IS CURRENTLY
MEETING THE SIXTY FIVE PERCENT
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT AND THE
FRONT SET BACK.
WHERE IS THE FRONT SET BACK?
IT'S A LONG DRAWN ON THE
NORTHERN EDGE OF THIS IMAGE
ALONG THAT PANHANDLE WHERE
JOHN'S CURSOR IS.
THAT'S WHERE THE PETITIONER
WOULD NEED TO LOCATE UNITS IN
ORDER TO DO SO EVEN THOUGH THIS
IS A HUGE DEVELOPMENT WITH A
LOT OF STUFF GOING ON BECAUSE
THERE IS NO UNITS RIGHT UP
THERE ON DUVAN ROAD.
IT'S DOESN'T COMPLY WITH THE
FRONT SET EVEN THOUGH IT'S
CORRECT ALL THESE ROADS IN HERE
IT'S THE FRONT SET BACKS FROM
ARE THOSE ALL PRIVATE ROADS BY
THE WAY?
YES, THOSE ARE ALL PRIVATE
DRIVES.
SO THEY HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY
TO CLEAN THOSE UP AND SNOWPLOW
YES.
YES THEY DO AND THEY ALSO GET
NARROWER THE CAPABILITY TO PUT
NARROW ROADS YOU DON'T HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH OUR GENERALLY
SPEAKING OUR STANDARDS FOR
ACCESS DRIVES ALLOW FOR
NARROWER ROADS THAN IF THEY
WERE PUBLIC STREETS OR ON
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY AND IT'S I
GUESS IT'S RAISING A WHOLE
NOTHER QUESTIONS FOR ME ABOUT
THE DEVELOPMENT AND I KNOW THIS
A SITE PLAN STUFF.
ARE THERE SITE SIDEWALKS IN
THERE?
YES, THE PETITIONER IS
PROPOSING SIDEWALKS THROUGHOUT
THE SITE.
MOST SIGNIFICANT TO THE
PETITIONER IS PROPOSING A TEN
FOOT WIDE SHARED SURE TO USE
PATH THAT GOES ALL THE WAY FROM
UNEAC TRAIL TO LESLI PARK ON
THE EASTERN SIDE OF THE SITE AS
WELL AS THE NORTH SOUTH
CORRIDOR THAT TAKES TAKES YOU
FROM DVORIN INTO THE SITE.
SO THE ANSWER TO THAT IS YES,
THE PETITIONERS IS PROPOSING
SIDEWALKS AND SHARED PATH
THROUGHOUT THE SITE.
SO ON THIS PICTURE THAT'S ON
THE SCREEN RIGHT NOW, LESLIE
PARK IS IN THE LOWER RIGHT
BRACKET.
JOHN'S GOT HIS CURSOR AND I SEE
THAT
THANK YOU.
SO ANY OTHER DISCUSSION I WILL
SAY BRIEFLY I AM STRUGGLING
WITH THIS A LITTLE BIT FOR
SIMILAR REASON AS DAVE JUST
MENTIONED THAT I MEAN IT'S IT'S
UNIQUE FOR SURE AND ALL THE
YEARS I'VE BEEN DOING THIS, I
DON'T THINK I'VE EVER SEEN
ANYTHING THAT WAS KIND OF A
TEMPORARY VARIANCE BEFORE.
BUT I AM A LITTLE BIT HUNG UP
ON THE STANDARDS AND HOW THIS
MEETS THE STANDARDS KNOWING
THAT THEY'RE COMING IN WITH
ANOTHER PHASE THAT AS TODD
SAID, SELF CORRECTS.
SO I MEAN THAT THAT TO ME KIND
OF SAYS THERE ISN'T REALLY A
HARDSHIP BECAUSE THEY'VE
ALREADY RESOLVED THE HARDSHIP
SO DO THEY REALLY NEED A
VARIANCE?
I'M NOT SURE.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I'M AT.
TODD I'M TURNING ON MY
MICROPHONE.
I APOLOGIZE.
SO IF NOT GRANTING THE VARIANCE
WOULD SLOW THE PROJECT DOWN,
THAT'S ALWAYS A CONCERN TO A
DEVELOPER BECAUSE YOU BORROW
MONEY AHEAD OF TIME AND
INTEREST RATES ARE GOING UP SO
IT'S NOT A FREE NO NO PROBLEM
TRYING TO SAY YOU JUST HAVE TO
STRETCH THE PROJECT OUT SO
THERE'S A COST TO THAT.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS BUT I
WOULD JUST GO BACK REPEATING
THAT THE CONCERNS ABOUT THE GAS
FURNACES, FOR EXAMPLE, ARE
SIMPLY NOT SOMETHING THAT I
THINK IS PART OF THE PURVIEW
OF THIS COMMITTEE AND THEY
SHOULD DROP OUT SHOULD NOT BE
CONSIDERED BY US
.
DAVE, I'M STILL GRAPPLING WITH
THIS AND AGAIN STILL TORN.
I IF THEY CAN MEET THIS AND I'M
MR. GARBER RAISES THE QUESTION
IF IT DOES NOT COMPLY WITH
STANDARD NO TO THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY WILL RESULT FROM A
FAILURE WHICH WILL RESULT FROM
THE FAILURE TO GRANT THE
VARIANCE INCLUDE SUBSTANTIALLY
MORE THAN MERE INCONVENIENCE OR
INABILITY TO ATTAIN A HIGHER
FINANCIAL RETURN IF THEY HAVE A
PATH TO COMPLYING WITH CURRENT
ZONING CODES THAT'S ON A TAPE
THAT'S ON THEIR TIMELINE.
I DON'T SEE HOW WE CAN'T HOW WE
CAN ACCEPT THE AND GIVE THE
GRANT EXPERIENCE.
I THINK IT SETS US UP TO SAID
OK WELL GRANT VARIANCES AND YOU
CURE THE PROBLEM LATER
, YOU
KNOW, JUST THAT IT'S SETTING A
BAD PRECEDENT IN MY OPINION AS
I'M THINKING ABOUT IT AND
TALKING ABOUT IT.
MY TALKING IS HELPING ME THINK
ABOUT IT.
I THINK I HAVE TO VOTE FOR IT
BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING TO COMPLY
IF THEY IF THEY PROCEED WITH
THE PLANS THAT THEY ARTICULATE,
THEY CAN COMPLY WITH THE
CURRENT ZONING AND THEY DON'T
EVEN NEED TO COME TO THE ZIBA.
SO I'LL BE VOTING AGAINST THIS
MAYBE NOT OUTSIDE.
WE'RE IN FOR A DISCUSSION AT
THIS POINT UNLESS SOMEONE HAS A
SPECIFIC QUESTION FOR THE
APPLICANT.
YEAH, SURE.
YEAH.
CAN YOU JUST HELP ME UNDERSTAND
FROM A PRACTICAL STANDPOINT
WHAT HAPPENS IF WE DON'T GRANT
VARIANCE?
I CAN DO MY BEST.
IT MIGHT ALSO BE GOOD TO ASK
THAT QUESTION.
THE PETITIONER THE PETITIONER
AS FAR AS I KNOW IS PLANNING TO
SUBMIT THE PHASE TO SITE PLAN
FAIRLY SOON THAT MAY BE OVER
THE COURSE OF THE NEXT COUPLE
OF MONTHS SAY PLAN REVIEW TAKES
QUITE A NUMBER OF MONTHS
PARTICULARLY FOR SITES THAT
HAVE COMPLEXITIES AND ARE
FAIRLY SIZABLE SITES AND IN
THIS CASE THE SITE PLAN WOULD
ALSO INCLUDE THE REZONING
OF THE ELEVEN ACRES ALONG
PONTIAC TRAIL.
SO THAT ADDS TO READINGS THAT
CITY COUNCIL.
SO THAT MEANS WE'RE LIKELY
LOOKING AT, YOU KNOW, AT LEAST
SIX MONTHS FROM NOW UNTIL THE
PETITIONER WOULD BE ABLE TO GET
SITE PLAN APPROVAL FOR THAT
SECOND PHASE WHICH WHICH MEANS
THAT THE SITE THE PETITIONER
WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO BEGIN
MOVING DIRT, GRADING THE SITE,
BRINGING UTILITIES AND
CONSTRUCTING ALL THE MITIGATION
DEVICES FOR FOR THE LANDFILL SO
THE DEVELOPER WOULD BE ON HOLD
BECAUSE THE SITE PLAN WOULD
TECHNICALLY NOT HAVE BEEN
APPROVED BECAUSE THE SITE THE
APPROVAL OF SITE PLAN WAS
SUBJECT TO OBTAINING VARIANCE
SO IT WOULD LIKELY DELAY THE
PETITIONER THROUGHOUT THIS NEXT
CONSTRUCTION SEASON.
SO SIX MONTHS WAS A ROUGH
ESTIMATE THAT'S NOT OUTSIDE THE
REALM OF POSSIBILITY
RECOGNIZING THAT THEY MAY COME
IN WITH THE NEXT COUPLE
OF MONTHS, THE PIPELINE REVIEW
MIGHT TAKE A COUPLE OF MONTHS
AND THEN IT NEEDS TO GO TO A
PUBLIC HEARING, A PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEN IT NEEDS TO
GO TO TWO READINGS AT CITY
COUNCIL I THINK SIX MONTHS, YOU
KNOW, AT A MINIMUM.
SO I THINK WE'VE KIND OF FALLEN
INTO A LITTLE BIT OF A TRAP
HERE.
SO SIX MONTHS IF YOU'RE LUCKY
BUT PROBABLY MORE DEVELOPMENT.
HOWEVER, IT TAKES A LONG TIME
AND REASONINGS ARE NOT EASY AND
AND SO REALLY WHAT HE'S UP
AGAINST IF WE IF WE SAY IT'S A
RUSH THOUGH IT DOESN'T SEEM
LIKE IT TO GET APPROVAL SO THAT
HE CAN GO DO HIS GROUNDWORK
BEFORE THE GROUND REFREEZES
NEXT FALL.
THIS IS NOT SOME SMALL DELAY.
IT'S NOT SOME TWO MONTH DELAY
UNTIL HOUSES CAN GO UP AND YOU
KNOW, THIS IS THE STUFF THAT
KILLS PROJECTS AND I THINK THAT
OFTENTIMES ZONING BOARDS
OF APPEALS AND PLANNING
COMMISSIONS AND CITY COUNCILS
THEY FEEL BAKHTIN BECAUSE THEIR
MEMBERS, RESIDENTS OR WHOEVER
COME WITH WHAT SEEMED LIKE A
VERY REASONABLE REQUEST.
RIGHT.
THEY SAY OH WE NEED A PARKING
STUDY OR WE NEED THIS, WE NEED
THAT.
THEY'RE VERY SMALL THINGS.
PERHAPS THEY DON'T EVEN COST
THAT MUCH IN THE RELATIVE
SCHEME OF THINGS FOR OUR
DEVELOPMENT.
BUT WHAT THEY WANT THEY DO IS
DELAY IT UNTIL AND THAT'S
REALLY ULTIMATELY A GOAL IF
PEOPLE WHO OPPOSE THINGS LIKE
THIS AND I'M NOT SAYING THAT
THE PEOPLE WHO SPOKE OUT
AGAINST IT TODAY THAT'S THEIR
GOAL.
BUT I THINK THAT A LOT OF TIMES
THAT IS AND WHAT ENDS UP
HAPPENING IS THESE SMALL THINGS
,THESE THINGS THAT SEEM VERY
REASONABLE, RIGHT?
OH, HE CAN COME BEFORE A
PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER HIS
MONTHS LONG REZONING TO GET
BYRAN APPROVAL AND I THINK
THAT'S GREAT AND I'M SURE THAT
HE WILL DO THAT.
I JUST YOU KNOW, I THINK A LOT
ABOUT THE PEOPLE WHO WHO WILL
BENEFIT FROM THE PROJECT.
RIGHT.
WHO WHO AREN'T HERE AND THERE
ARE MANY OF THEM THERE HUNDREDS
IF NOT THOUSANDS OF THEM WHO
WILL INITIALLY CALL IT HOME AND
THERE ARE THOUSANDS MORE OVER
THE LIFE OF WHATEVER BUILDINGS
ARE THERE AND I DON'T THINK
THAT THEY PARTICULARLY
HOOTENANNY ABOUT SOME TECHNICAL
THING THAT ALLOWS A PROJECT TO
PROCEED.
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE IN FAVOR
OF IT.
I THINK THAT IT IS SIMPLY THE
RIGHT DECISION TO DO I DON'T
THINK IT IS A REASONABLE
REQUEST TO DELAY A PROJECT
POTENTIALLY THROUGH NEXT WINTER
TO GET STARTED BECAUSE THEY
DON'T MEET, YOU KNOW, A SMALL
SETBACK THAT WILL EVENTUALLY BE
MET.
THANKS, CHRIS.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
ARE WE READY FOR A MOTION?
MAKE THE MOTION.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZIBA TWENTY TWO
DASH TWO ZERO TWO EIGHT 1710
ENVIRON ROAD BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARD LET'S GET OUT ACROSS
OUR MINDS BASED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE FROM THE 40 FOOT
MAXIMUM SETBACK REQUIREMENT
ESTABLISHED IN TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH THREE MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS.
THE VARIANCE ALLOWS THE PROJECT
TO MOVE FORWARD FOR SITE PLAN
APPROVAL FROM CITY COUNCIL.
THIS VARIANCE SECOND.
THANK YOU DAVE.
THANK YOU TODD.
YES, DAVE DEVOTEE VOTES NO
CHRISTINA YES.
TODD.
YES CHRIS YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES REQUEST IS
GRANTED.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MOVING ON TO PETITION QUBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO ONE FIVE EIGHTEEN MILLER
AVENUE JOHN.
I'M JOHN BERMAN.
HE'S ONLY ORDERING PIZZA HERE.
MELROSE LLC IS SEEKING A FIVE
FOOT LOT WITH CLEARANCE FROM
TABLE FIVE POINT FIVE TO
SEVENTEEN POINT TWO TO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT.
IMAGINE THAT TO BEGIN TO BEGIN
CONSTRUCTION ON A SEVEN HUNDRED
AND TWENTY SQUARE FOOT TWO
STORY ADDITION TO THE REAR
OF AN EXISTING DUPLEX THE FIRST
FLOOR ADDITIONAL CONTAINING
PRIMARY BEDROOM AND ACCESSIBLE
BATHROOM AND A MUDRA ON THE
SECOND FLOOR ADDITIONAL BETWEEN
TWO BEDROOMS, A BATHROOM AND A
LARGE DINING AREA.
THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL MEET THE
REQUIRED SIDE OF YOURSELF.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS ON OUR
TWO WAY TO FAMILY DESIGN.
THE EXISTING LOT IS THIRTY FIVE
FEET AND WIDTH AND THE ARCHWAY
DISTRICT REQUIRES A MINIMUM 40
FOOT FLAT WITH THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF MILLER AVENUE
NEAR THE INTERSECTING
THOROUGHFARE OF CHAPMAN STREET
,THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR OWNED
WEST WESTPORT.
THE CITY OF AN EVER TO WEST
PARK IS IN THE VICINITY OF THE
THE HOME WAS BUILT IN 1911 AND
IS APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED NINETY SQUARE FEET
IN SIZE.
THE EXISTING PARCEL IS FOUR
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED FIFTY
SIX SQUARE FEET AND AREA THE
MINIMUM LOT SIZE FOR THE
ARCHWAY DISTRICT IS FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
THE PROPERTY OWNERS WILL OBTAIN
THE REQUIRED SIX HUNDRED FORTY
FOUR SQUARE FEET AN AREA FROM
THE ABUTTING PROPERTY FIVE
TWENTY EIGHT MILLER THROUGH THE
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND TRANSFER
PROCESS.
ONE OF THE OWNERS IS PLANNING
TO LIVE IN THE DOWNSTAIRS UNIT
GRANTING THE VARIANCE WILL
PERMIT CONSTRUCTION OF A UNIT
WITH MANY HANDICAPPED
ACCESSIBLE FEATURES.
THE FIRST FLOOR ADDITIONAL WILL
ALLOW FOR AGING IN PLACE FOR
THE RESIDENT, INCLUDING A
BATHROOM THAT ACCOMMODATES
WHEELCHAIR MANEUVERABILITY, A
HANDICAPPED ACCESSIBLE BATHROOM
FLOOR SPACE AND ALL AREAS FOR
WHEELCHAIR CLARENCE MAIN FLOOR
LAUNDRY FACILITIES AND THE TWO
STAIR REAR ENTRANCE WITH SPACE
FOR A THE NEW ADDITION CREATE A
LESS HAZARDOUS ENTRANCE FOR THE
FIRST FLOOR THAN EXISTING.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITOR'S YOU'LL SEE THE
FIRST MAP IS THE ZONING MAP
WITH THE SUBJECT PARCEL
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW IN THE
CENTER.
THE NEXT MAP IS THE AERIAL MAP
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS.
THE NEXT PART SLIDE IS SHOWING
THE EXISTING CONDITIONS THE
EXISTING PROPERTY AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SHOWS THE SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS HOW
THE OWNERS ARE GOING TO OBTAIN
THE ADDITIONAL SIX HUNDRED AND
FORTY FOUR SQUARE FEET TO THE
NORTH TO MAKE THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY COMPLY WITH THE FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT LOT AREA
REQUIREMENT.
AND THEN AS YOU SEE DOWN HERE
ON PLAN IT'S 35 FEET AND WITH
THAT'S WHY THEY NEED THE FIVE
VARIANCE REQUIREMENT FOR
TONIGHT TO MEET THE 40 FOOT LOT
WITH SO THEY CAN EXPAND THE
EXISTING DUPLEX.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
PROPOSED SEVEN HUNDRED AND
TWENTY SQUARE FOOT ADDITIONS
AND THE HATCHED AREA IT'S
APPROXIMATELY 20 FEET SIX
INCHES BY 19 FEET TWO AND
QUARTER INCHES.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN
AND THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE NEW
BEDROOM, THE ACCESSIBLE
BATHROOM
AND ADJACENT BATH, THE
MUDROOM AND A WASHER AND DRYER
AREA ON THIS FIRST FLOOR THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE TWO
BEDROOMS AND THE ONE BATH AND
THE DINING ROOM DINING ROOM
AREA ON THE SECOND FLOOR AND
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
ELEVATION YOU SEE THE ELEVATION
ON THE NORTH LOOKING DIRECTLY
AT THE ADDITION AND THE OTHER
TO SHOW THE SIDE ELEVATIONS
OF THE PROPOSED TWO STOREY
ADDITION.
THESE ARE PHOTOS THAT WERE
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
I WILL LET THEM COMMENT ON THEM
AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SLIDE
THAT PHOTOS THAT I TOOK ON MY
INSPECTION OF THE PROPERTY SEE
THE FRONT OF THE PROPERTY AND
THIS IS GOING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY
TOWARDS THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY AND YOU SEE THE
DETACHED GARAGES IN REAR AND
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
DETACHED GARAGE AND THE
REMAINDER OF THE BACKYARD AND
THE AREA TO THE WHERE THE CAR
IS PARKED IS WHERE THIS
ADMINISTRATOR OF LAND TRANSFER
AN ADDITIONAL SQUARE FOOTAGE IS
GOING TO MAKE THE PROPERTY MEET
THE REQUIREMENTS.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE REAR
OF THE FACADE OF THE HOME AND
THIS IS THE SURVEY YOU SEE THE
SURVEY STAKES IN THIS PHOTO AND
THIS IS THE AREA WHERE THE SIX
HUNDRED FORTY FOUR SQUARE FEET
ARE GOING TO BE ADDED TO THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY JUST ANOTHER
SHOT OF WHERE THAT PROPERTY IS
IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY TO THE SOUTH AND THE
PROPERTY TO THE NORTH.
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
CHRIS, HAS IT EVER BEEN
DISCUSSED OR CONSIDERED TO
AMEND THE ORDINANCE TO ALLOW
DEVELOPMENT OF CONFORMING
STRUCTURES ON NONCOM WARMING?
WHAT SO THE ANSWER TO A
DISTRICT WE JUST REDUCED THE
THRESHOLDS FOR THIS.
THEY ARE TO WAIT APPROXIMATELY
FOUR MONTHS AGO YOU HAD TO HAVE
SEVENTY EIGHT THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED SQUARE FOR AN HOUR TO A
LOT AND WE'VE REDUCED THAT
REQUIREMENT DOWN TO FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
IT MATCHES THE R1 D SINGLE
FAMILY DISTRICT SO WE HAVE
REDUCED THE THRESHOLD AND THIS
ONE JUST FALLS SHORT OF THE LOT
WIDTH OF THE FIVE FEET AND THEN
THEY'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO ADD
THE ADDITIONAL SQUARE FOOTAGE
IN THE BACK SO WE HAVE NO MORE
REASONABLE FOR PEOPLE WITH OUR
TO A LOT TO DO ADDITIONS OR WHO
HAVE A SINGLE FAMILY OR TO A
LOT TO CREATE A DUPLEX.
THANK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONER IS HERE AND
YOU CAN PLEASE COME FORWARD
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
I SAY
GOOD EVENING AND THANKS FOR
FINALLY MEETING I THINK OK.
I WAS IN BERKELEY AND I'M THE
MAJOR OWNER OF OMAROSA LLC, THE
CO-OWNERS ARE MY CHILDREN AND
THEIR SPOUSES.
I'M EIGHTY YEARS OLD IN FACT
TODAY IS MY BIRTHDAY SO I'VE
LIVED IN ANN ARBOR AND THE SAME
TWO STORY HOUSE FOR FIFTY YEARS
AND FOR THE PAST TEN YEARS IT'S
REALLY BECOME INCREASINGLY
CLEAR TO ME THAT I NEEDED TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT LIVING IN A TWO
STORY HOME AND I NEED TO LIVE
IN A ONE STORY HOME UNIT WITH
LAUNDRY FACILITIES AND SLEEPING
ARRANGEMENTS ON THE SAME FLOOR
TO ALLOW ME TO AGE IN PLACE.
CURRENTLY LIKE EVERY MANY HOMES
THAT ARE BUT THE BASEMENT HAS
THE LAUNDRY.
UPSTAIRS ARE THE BEDROOMS.
IN THE FALL OF TWENTY TWENTY
ONE MY FAMILY AND I BOUGHT FIVE
EIGHT MELLER DUPLEX WHICH COULD
PROVIDE THIS OPPORTUNITY WE
THOUGHT THE BUILDING WAS
EXACTLY NEXT DOOR TO MY
DAUGHTER AND OFFERED ME THE
ADVANTAGES OF LIVING CLOSE TO
MY DAUGHTER AND TO SOME OF THE
VOLUNTEER ACTIVITIES THAT I DO
.
IT'S ALSO A FEW STEPS OF THE
ANN ARBOR BUS SYSTEM WHICH
MIGHT BECOME INCREASINGLY
NEEDED NECESSARY FOR ME AS I
AGE AS YOU HEARD AS IT
CURRENTLY EXISTS, THE FIRST
FLOOR APARTMENT OF 518 IS
AROUND FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
AND REALLY DOESN'T OFFER WHAT I
WOULD NEED FOR A LIVING
COMFORTABLY AS I AGE I BECOME
INCREASINGLY DISABLED.
I'M HOPING TO ENLARGE THAT
STRUCTURE TO INCLUDE A BATHROOM
WITH ZERO CLEARANCE SHOWER THAT
COULD ACCOMMODATE A WHEELCHAIR
ENTRY IF I NEED HAVE LAUNDRY
FACILITIES ON THE FIRST FLOOR
BUILD A TWO STEP REAR ENTRANCE
THAT COULD BE EASILY WRAPPED
MODIFIED RATHER THAN THE LONG
AS YOU SAW TEN STOREY TEN STAIR
FRONT WALK WITH A REGULAR
STAIRS AT THE SIDE DOOR THAT
CURRENTLY EXIST.
THE PROPERTY HAS NOT BEEN
SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVED SINCE
THE 1960S.
IF I CAN MAKE IT MY HOME TO AGE
IN PLACE I PLAN TO IMPROVE THE
STREETSIDE VISUAL LOOK SUCH AS
REPLACING THAT CRUMBLING STUCCO
WITH SIDE AND SIDING.
WE ALSO HAVE A PLAN TO ADD
THERMAL INSULATION, HIGH
EFFICIENCY ELECTRICAL
APPLIANCES, ENERGY EFFICIENT
WINDOWS, A HEAT PUMP WHICH IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE CITY'S
EIGHT TWO ZERO PROGRAM GOALS.
WE HAVE NO OBJECTION FROM THE
NEIGHBORS.
MY DAUGHTER LIVES ON THE WEST
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY AND ON THE
EAST SIDE.
THE NEIGHBOR WHO SHARES A
DRIVEWAY EASEMENT HAS NO ISSUE
WITH THE PROPERTY AND I THINK
THERE'S A LETTER OR AN EMAIL
FROM HER IN THE PACKET IN
CONCLUSION ALLOWING A VARIANCE
OF FIVE FEET ON THE WIDTH
OF THE PROPERTY OF 518.
MILLER WILL PROVIDE HOUSING FOR
ME OR ANOTHER OLDER PERSON TO
AGE IN PLACE AND OR DISABLE
PERSON TO LIVE COMFORTABLY.
IT WILL IMPROVE THE APPEARANCE
AND STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND I THINK CONTRIBUTE
TO AN AVERAGE CLEAN ENERGY
GOALS.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
?
YES CHRIS AND I'M SORRY IF HE
SAID THIS TODAY MR. I HEARD YOU
SAY THAT IT HAS BEEN IMPROVED
SINCE THE 60S.
IT HAS I BELIEVE IT HAS NOT
BEEN SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVED
SINCE THE 60S.
DO YOU HAVE AND DO YOU KNOW
WHAT YEAR IT WAS BUILT
ORIGINALLY THE PROPERTY
INDICATES IT WAS BUILT NINETEEN
OR ONE BUT WE SUSPECT MAY BE
NINETEEN EIGHTY.
THANK YOU.
AND THAT'S WHEN THE LOT SIZES
SURE.
SEVERAL LARGE SIZES WERE THIRTY
FIVE FEET.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU.
SO I'LL SAY WHEN WE LOOK AT OUR
RECORDS AND PUT IT IN THE STAFF
REPORT IT'S BUILT IN NINETEEN
ONE OUR RECORDS ONLY GO BACK TO
NINETEEN NO ONE SO IT MAY BE
EVEN PREVIOUS TO NOTHING.
OK SO I COULD HAVE BEEN IN 1890
OR 1895 BUT IT'S A MINIMUM
OF NINETEEN OK OK.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
IF THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING A
MEETING REMOTELY WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
NOW TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR USE
THE RACE HAND FUNCTION ON THE
WEBLINK I WILL NOTE WE DID
RECEIVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM DANIELLE JEAN COLOR ENDING
FIVE THREE FOUR.
HE WILL NOW BE ALLOWED TO TALK
IN THE MEETING WITH START
RECORDING AGAIN.
I'M CALLING ON ONE OF THE
OWNERS OF THE NEIGHBORING
HOUSE.
I'M NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE
TO MILLER VERY CLOSE TO THEIR
LIKE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO THE
APPLICANT LIKE TO SAY THAT THE
OWNERS OF FIVE OR TWO MILLION
HAVE NO OBJECTION TO THIS
APPLICATION AS I SAID BEFORE ON
MY LAST CALL THAT I DO RESPECT
THE JUDGMENT THE BOARD AND
LEAVE THOSE DECISIONS TO YOU
AND FOR NOT NOT FOR ME TO
RECOMMEND ONE WAY OR ANOTHER.
I DO NOTE IT IS INTERESTING
THAT THE TO A ZONING BOARD WERE
RECENTLY CHANGED AND THAT
BRINGS IT CLOSE TO COMPLIANCE.
BUT I LET YOU DECIDE HOW TO
HANDLE THAT SO WE HAVE NO
OBJECTION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
OTHER COLORS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
BUT THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
THAT DAY.
YES, THIS IS FOR STAFF.
SO EVEN THOUGH THE SLOT IS
NARROWER IT COMPLIES WITH ALL
THE SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
CORRECT.
AND SO THE PROPOSED ADDITION SO
EVERYTHING IS COMPLIANT WITH
ALL OF OUR SETBACKS AND
EVERYTHING IN THERE.
THEY'RE ADDING A LOT AREA TO
COMPLY WITH THAT AND IT'S ONLY
THE FACT THAT THIS GOES BACK TO
NINETEEN HUNDRED AS A THIRTY
FIVE FOOT LOT.
THIS IS A NON PERFORMING LOT
AND THE AREA WAS NOT PERFORMING
AS WELL BUT THEY'RE GOING TO
RECTIFY THAT WITH THE ADDITION
OF THE ADMINISTRATOR PLANNED
TRANSFER FROM UNDER OVER
PROTOCELL BUT THAT IS THE ONE
CRITERIA THAT THEY'RE DEFICIENT
.
CHRIS, THERE'S SOMETHING FUN
ABOUT THIS.
IT WAS CREATED PRIOR TO THE
EXISTENCE OF ZONING AND SO IF
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR THAT IT WAS
SELF CREATED THAT WHOEVER
DESIGNED THE SLOT DID NOT
CREATE IT WITH THE IDEA
OF CONFORMING TO WHAT
STANDARDS.
SO JUST KIND OF INTERESTING
SPECKLING HAVE A LOT OF THOSE
LOTS THOUGH ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION?
ARE WE READY FOR EMOTIONS?
I MEAN JUST IN TO THE POINT
OF THE THIS VARIANCE I'M GOING
TO SUPPORT IT AND IT SEEMS TO
ME IT'S COMPLIANT IN EVERY WAY
WITH OUR ZONING CODES EXCEPT
FOR THIS ONE ASPECT OF THE
HISTORIC NATURE OF OUR ZONING
CODES COMING IN AFTER
LOTS LIKE
THIS WE'RE SPLIT AND
CREATED AND I'M READY TO READ
IT.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO ONE
FIVE EIGHTEEN MILLER AVENUE IN
ACCORDANCE WITH ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A FIVE FOOT VARIANCE
FROM TABLE FIVE DASH SEVENTEEN
POINT FIVE TO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT DIMENSIONS
TO BEGIN CONSTRUCTION ON A
SEVEN HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE
FOOT TWO STORY ADDITION TO THE
REAR OF AN EXISTING DUPLEX.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS ZONED
OUT TO A TWO FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT AND A MINIMUM 40 FOOT
LOT WITH AS REQUIRED THE
ADDITION AS TO BE BUILT PER THE
SUBMITTED PLANS HAVE A MOTION
TO HAVE SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS CHRIS.
YES, I ALSO VOTE YES DARMA.
YES DAVE DEVADAS YES CHRISTINA
YES TODD YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION'S QUBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO TWO FIVE ELEVEN EAST AND
ST. JOHN PROBERS OF ALLEX
STUDIOS REPRESENTING THE
PROPERTY OWNER ARE SEEKING
VARIANCES FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TO
SUBSECTION A TO NONCONFORMING
LOT AND TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN THAT THREE MULTIPLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT DIMENSIONS IN ORDER TO
CREATE A SECOND UNIT TO AN
EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCE, THE PROPERTY IS
OWNED OUR FORESE MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING AND REQUIRES A
MINIMUM LOT SIZE OF EIGHT
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET AND A LOT WITH OF SIXTY
FEET.
THE EXISTING LOT IS SIX
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED SEVENTY
THREE SQUARE FEET IN THE AREA
AND FIFTY SEVEN FEET AND WITH A
VARIANCE OF TWO THOUSAND AND
TWENTY SEVEN SQUARE FEET IN THE
AREA AND A THREE FOOT LOT WITH
IS REQUESTED TO ALLOW FOR AN
ADDITIONAL DWELLING ON THE
SUBJECT NONCONFORMING LOT THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED ON
THE NORTH SIDE OF EAST AND
STREET EAST OF NORTH DIVISION
AND WEST OF NORTH STATE STREET.
THE EARLIEST MAP OF RESIDENCE
APPEARS ON IS THE 1866 BIRDSEYE
MAP AND FIRST APPEARANCE IN THE
CITY DIRECTORY IS 1872.
THE HOUSE WAS MAINTAINED IN A
ACCEPTABLE CONDITION UNTIL THE
LATE 1960S AND SINCE THAT TIME
IT WAS ALLOWED TO FALL INTO
DISREPAIR.
THE HOME HAS NOT BEEN
CONSISTENTLY OCCUPIED IN RECENT
YEARS AND IS NOW IN ITS CURRENT
DILAPIDATED STATE.
THE CURRENT OWNER PURCHASED THE
HOME IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO.
THE HOME IS CURRENTLY IN A
SINGLE FAMILY STATUS.
THE PLANS TO CONVERT TO A
DUPLEX WILL COMBINE THE FIRST
FLOOR IN THE BASEMENT TO ONE
UNIT WITH SIX BEDROOMS AND
THREE BATHROOMS.
THE SECOND UNIT LOCATED ON THE
SECOND FLOOR WILL CONSIST
OF FOUR BEDROOMS AND TWO
BATHROOMS.
THE PLANS INCLUDE A TWO STOREY
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
HOME THAT IS 14 FEET BY THIRTY
SEVEN FEET TEN INCHES FOR A
TOTAL OF ONE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED FIFTY FIVE SQUARE FEET.
THE BASEMENT CONVERSION TO
CAPITAL SPACE IS FIVE HUNDRED
AND FIFTEEN SQUARE FEET AND THE
FIRST FLOOR AND SECOND FLOORS
TOTAL FIVE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
SQUARE FEET.
THE ADDITIONAL WILL MEET THE
REQUIRED SETBACKS FOR THE
DISTRICT IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS
YOU'LL SEE THE FIRST SLIDE IS
THE ZONING MAP AND YOU SEE THE
HIGHLIGHTED PARCEL IN YELLOW AT
THE CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN ON
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE STREET.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AERIAL
MAP SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS A ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
PROPOSED SITE PLAN AND YOU SEE
IN THE YELLOW THE HIGHLIGHTED
ADDITION AREA BEING PROPOSED
ARE THE FLOOR PLANS YOU SEE THE
BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN AND THE
FIRST FLOOR LEVEL PLAN.
THE BASEMENT HAS TWO BEDROOMS,
THE BATHROOM AND LEVEL ONE HAS
FOUR BEDROOMS AND TWO BATH.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS LEVEL TWO
BEING PROPOSED AND THAT HAS
FOUR BEDROOMS AND TWO BEDS AND
YOU SEE THE ROOF PLAYING
ALONGSIDE OF IT.
THE NEXT SLIDE ARE PHOTOS THAT
WERE SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
WITH THE APPLICATION SHOWING
EXISTING CONDITIONS IN THE
PROPERTY IN ITS CURRENT STATE
AND THESE ARE THE REAR YARD AND
REAR ELEVATION PHOTOS AND THESE
ARE MY PHOTOS I TOOK UPON MY
INSPECTION SEE THE REAR FACADE
MORE OF THE REAR FACADE SIDE
ELEVATION PART OF THE BACKYARD
ADJACENT PROPERTY TO THE WEST
YOU SEE THE CURRENT STATE
OF THE PROPERTY AND THE SECOND
FLOOR AND THIS IS THE PROPERTY
ADJACENT TO THE WEST AND THE
PROPERTY DIRECTLY TO THE EAST.
THAT IS THE END OF MY
PRESENTATION AND I WILL TAKE
ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE
AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS MAY COME
FORWARD, STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES COULD EVEN ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION.
EXCUSE ME.
I'LL START WITH A CLEAR THROAT
.
THANK YOU, MAGIC EXCUSE ME, MR.
MADIGAN AND THE SORT
OF OVERIDENTIFYING OLD
PROPERTIES AND THE CHALLENGES
OF WORKING IN A TEMPORARY ZONE
IN OUR FORCES NOT AT ALL
CONTEMPORARY BUT WE KNOW THE
HAZARDS AND THE CHALLENGES
OF WORKING AROUND IT.
YOU SAW THE PICTURES OF THIS
HOUSE AND WE'VE IDENTIFIED THE
EARLIEST DATE THAT WE'RE AWARE
OF 1866 WHEN IT WAS FIRST
EVIDENT.
IT'S A GREAT THING LIKE OH
OF COURSE PLEASE IS A BETTER
THANK YOU.
IT'S IT IT'S IT'S AN ESTEEMED
HOUSE IN TERMS OF ITS DATE AND
ITS HISTORY.
HOWEVER, THE HOUSE ITSELF HAS
FALLEN INTO DISREPAIR AS YOU
CAN OBVIOUSLY TELL BY THE
PHOTOGRAPHS BEING TAKEN BY
MYSELF AND BY MR. BARRETT.
IT IS A PROJECT THAT HAPPENS
ALSO ON THE STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
WE HAVE ALREADY GONE THROUGH DC
AND THE DRAWINGS THAT YOU SEE
IN FRONT OF YOU THIS EVENING
WERE IN FACT PROVED IN FULL BY
THE DC AT THIS TIME WE'RE
COMING TO YOU TONIGHT TO
HOPEFULLY BE GRANTED OUR
OPPORTUNITY FOR A VARIANCE IN
OUR OUR LOT WITH AND A LOT SIZE
TO BASICALLY CREATE A WHAT WE
DEEM VERY SUBTLE HGC APPROVABLE
ADDITION TO THE PROPERTY.
IT'S VERY SENSITIVELY DONE.
IT'S SCALED APPROPRIATELY.
I KNOW NONE OF THAT'S
APPROPRIATE TO OUR DISCUSSION
TONIGHT BUT ALL THOSE ARE
INTENTIONAL NOT FOR DC BUT IN
TERMS OF THE OVERALL INTENT
OF NOT MAXIMIZING THE
DEVELOPMENT ON THIS PROPERTY,
THIS UNIT IS INTENDED TO HELP
SUPPLEMENT WHAT'S ALREADY
THERE.
THERE'S ALREADY WORK UNDERWAY
TO STABILIZE AND PRESERVE THE
EXISTING BUILDING STRUCTURE IT
IS IN QUITE A BIT OF DISREPAIR
AND WE'RE GET INTO GORY DETAILS
ON THE ADDITIONS ITSELF IS
MEANT TO SUPPLEMENT THAT IT'S
NOT MEANT TO BE A PART OF THE
CURRICULUM A LAND GRAB IN
ADDITION OF MAXIMUM DENSITY AS
A DUPLEX WE FEEL IN OUR HEART
OF HEARTS THAT IT SUPPORTS THE
CURRENT SENSIBILITIES OF OUR
COMMUNITY, OF OUR OUR OUR
PLANNING COMMISSION, OUR CITY
COUNCIL AND HOPE YOURSELVES IN
TERMS OF BEING AN ADDITIONAL
SENSIBLY DESIGNED AND
INTRODUCED DWELLING UNIT
ADDITIONAL DWELLING UNIT INTO A
NEIGHBORHOOD SUCH AS THIS.
THERE'S ALSO I BELIEVE TEN
LETTERS IN YOUR PACKET THIS
EVENING ALL IN FULL SUPPORT
OF THIS PROJECT WHICH WOULD BE
A GREAT VERY GRATEFUL FOR
RECEIVING.
SO MR. BARRETT, IF I COULD JUST
QUICKLY WALK YOU THROUGH IT IS
PRETTY EVIDENT ON THE SITE PLAN
IF I COULD WHICH IS HAS MOST
BEARING ON OUR DISCUSSIONS THE
GREAT OUT AREA IN FRONT OF THE
EXISTING FOOTPRINT.
A PORTION OF THAT REAR AREA IS
EXISTING AS WELL.
YOU CAN SEE THE BOUNDED AREA IN
THE UPPER RIGHT IT'S GOING TO
BE YELLOWISH OR ORANGE JUICE.
YOU'LL SEE THE MINOR ADDITIONS
THAT'S BEING PROPOSED.
IT'S RELATIVELY SMALL IN SCALE
INTENTION IS TO MAKE ANYTHING
WE'RE DOING NEW TO THIS
PROPERTY FULLY COMPLIANT FOR
ALL THE SETBACK BACK
CONDITIONS, IT DOESN'T MAXIMIZE
SETBACKS IS DIRECTLY ABOUT IN
THE WEST SETBACK.
IT'S FAR REMOVED FROM THE REAR
SETBACK AND IT'S FAR REMOVED
FROM THE EASTERN SETBACK.
SO WHICH WOULD BE IN THAT CASE
IN ORDER LEFT UPPER AND RIGHT
IN THE CASE OF OUR VIEW IN THIS
SO IT'S A VERY SENSITIVE
UNDERTAKING.
AGAIN, WE RECOGNIZE THAT THERE
ARE THE TWO VARIANCE
REQUIREMENTS BUT WE'VE DONE
EVERYTHING WE CAN WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF GRABBING MORE LAND
WHICH IS NOT FEASIBLY FEASIBLE
AT ALL IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD TO
DO TO ATTAIN WHAT WHICH SHOULD
BE A VERY SIMPLE, ELEGANT
PROJECT.
AGAIN, THE LETTERS OF SUPPORT
ARE VERY CLEAR INDICATION
OF HOW THE NEIGHBORS VIEW THIS,
HOW THEY VIEW IT AS A POSITIVE
TO A BENEFIT NOT ONLY TO THE
CITY BUT TO THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
OVERALL IF THERE'S ANY TIME IN
AND IF WE CAN DO THIS AT THIS
BOARD MEMBER BUT IF THERE'S AN
EXTRA TIME I WOULD LIKE TO
INTRODUCE THE OWNER WE'D LIKE
TO THANK AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
OH MY SORRY.
THE OWNER HELLO.
THANK YOU GUYS SO MUCH FOR THE
TIME.
MY NAME IS RYAN PEDALO.
I AM THE OWNER OF 511 E STREET
AND FOR SOME OF YOU ARE HAPPY
TO HEAR THAT SOME OF YOU MAY BE
NERVOUS FOR THE PROJECT THAT
I'M ABOUT TO TAKE ON FOR ME AND
STREET MEANS MORE THAN JUST A
RENTAL PROPERTY CONTEXT.
I DON'T HAVE ANY FANCY SLIDE
SHOW FOR YOU GUYS.
WE'LL TELL YOU A LITTLE BIT
OF A PERSONAL STORY AND WHY I'M
HERE TODAY.
I STARTED IN REAL ESTATE IN ANN
ARBOR ABOUT FIVE YEARS AGO.
I'M A FULL TIME DAYJOB.
THIS IS MY SIDE PASSION.
I MOVED HERE FROM MASSACHUSETTS
.
I RENOVATED PROBABLY THE SECOND
MOST DILAPIDATED HOUSE ON THIS
STREET SIX OR THREE EAST AND
STREET, ONE OF THE REMAINING
THERE WAS A YEAR AND A HALF
PROJECT.
IT WAS SIX UNITS I KEPT THEM
ALL ONE BEDROOMS I WAS THIS IS
NOT YOUR TYPICAL DEVELOPMENT
JOB.
IF ANY OTHER DEVELOPER HAD IT
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN SIX BEDROOMS
UP AND DOWN.
THE NEIGHBOR HAD CONTACTED ME,
SAW THE GREAT WORK THAT I DID.
I THEN MOVED QUICKLY TO
PURCHASE THIS PROPERTY KNOWING
THE AMOUNT OF WORK THAT IT
NEEDED I WAS SCARED
I TOOK IT
ON BECAUSE I KNOW THAT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS THIS TYPE
OF RESTORATION WORK.
PAUL DUNLAP WHO LIVES AT SIX OR
TWO STANGE STREET HAD TEARS IN
HIS EYES AND THOUGHT ABOUT
SELLING HIS PROPERTY TO MOVE
AWAY FROM AND STREET BECAUSE
OF THE CONDITION OF SIX OR
THREE AFTER I HAD FIXED IT UP
HE HAS COMPLETELY CHANGED HIS
MIND AND IS NOW A HAPPY
RESIDENT AT SIX 00 TO ESTANCIA.
SO FOR ME 511 ECCENTRIC MEANS A
LOT MORE THAN JUST CREATING AN
AMAZING LIVING EXPERIENCE FOR
THE TENANTS LIVING THERE.
IT'S ABOUT IT'S ABOUT CREATING
A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT PEOPLE ARE
PROUD TO LIVE IN.
NOT TO MENTION I LIVE AT TWO
ONE EAST AND STREET SO I'M ON
THE STREET.
I'M A TENANT MYSELF.
THIS IS NOT YOUR TYPICAL
DEVELOPER PITCH BUT I JUST WANT
TO SPEAK FROM THE HEART ON WHY
I'M HERE TODAY AND WHY I'D
REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT
IN THIS PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
FOR HIS ARCHITECT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE'S ANYONE HERE WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE COME FORWARD
NOW IF YOU'RE ACCESSING VIA THE
PHONE OR THE WEB LINK, PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FUNCTION ON THE WEBLINK WHILE
WE WAIT.
OH, SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
GO AHEAD AND CALL HER ENDING
THREE TO SIX YOU WILL NOT BE
ALLOWED TO TALK IN THE MEETING
.
OK WE YEP.
OH MY NAME IS JACK AND ACTUALLY
I'M HERE WITH CHRISTINE CROCKER
BUT CHRIS AND I LIVE EASTERN
FOR OVER 40 YEARS AND WE ARE
ALSO ULCER'S OF THE OLD FORT
WORTH HISTORIC AND WE ARE
THRILLED WITH THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE IT IS DOING ALL THE
RIGHT THINGS IN EXACTLY THE
RIGHT WAY AND YOU KIND OF YOU
HAVE CONTACTED THE BOARD OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WE MET A COUPLE OF TIMES BUT I
DO WANT TO SAY THAT BEING A
RESIDENT FOR OVER FOUR YEARS I
WANT TO BUY THE PROPERTY FIVE
ELEVEN HUNDRED AND OVER THE
YEARS WE'VE SEEN THE
DETERIORATION IN PROPERTY TO
THE EXTENT THAT AT ONE POINT
ABOUT THREE YEARS AGO I
REPORTED IT TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION AND THEN
UNDER SERIOUS CONSIDERATION
EVENTUALLY FOR DEMOLITION
DEMOLITION BY THIS.
SO AT THIS POINT I RETURN TO TO
MY WIFE CHRISTINE.
HI, THIS IS CHRIS ROCKET AND
PRESIDENT THE OLD WORD
ASSOCIATION AND I JUST WANT TO
SAY THAT THIS IS TO BE THE
OLDEST HOUSE IN HONORABLE AND
AS WE APPROACH THE BICENTENNIAL
WE ARE ABSOLUTELY OVER THE MOON
THAT SOMEONE HAS BOUGHT THIS
HOUSE THAT CARES TRULY CARES
ABOUT ITS NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE IS SO MUCH EXPLOITATION
BY ABSENTEE LANDLORDS OF THE
PROPERTIES IN THE OLD FORT OR
HISTORIC DISTRICT THINKING
OF MINIMAL CARE TO THE HOUSES
OF THIS VERY HISTORIC
NEIGHBORHOOD AND WE COULDN'T BE
HAPPIER THAT ONE HAS BOUGHT
THIS HOUSE AND PLANS TO DO
BEAUTIFUL THINGS WITH THAT WE
FULLY SUPPORT HIS PLAN AND WE
ARE SO HAPPY THAT HE IS ONE
OF OUR NEIGHBORS.
WE WISH THAT WE HAD MORE
NEIGHBORS LIKE RYAN WHO REALLY
CARE ABOUT CARING ABOUT AND OUR
ARCHITECTURAL HERITAGE.
SO WE REALLY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
PASS THIS ZONING BOARD APPEAL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
ADDITIONAL CALLERS AT THIS
TIME.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID RECEIVE
TEN LETTERS OF SUPPORT FOR THIS
PROJECT FROM CHRISTINE CROCKET
AND JEFF CROCKET ELEANOR CROWN
AT THREE THREE EIGHT E KINGSLEY
ST. PAUL DUNLAP AT SIX TO E AND
ST. LIZA HARIRI AT FIVE TWENTY
ONE E AND STREET CAME AND STEVE
UDOH WHO DOLEN THREE OR THREE
NORTH DIVISION STREET JULIE
RHYDER BENSONS SMITH THREE
THIRTY ONE E AND STREET ILYIN
TYLER MAGNIS WILSON FIVE
SEVENTEEN E END STREET AND
SUSAN VINEBERG AND LAST BURIN
AT SEVEN TWELVE E AND STREET
AND I APOLOGIZE IF I BUTCHERED
ANYONE'S NAMES WITH THAT.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND WE ARE IN DISCUSSION THAT
YOU WENT THROUGH THE LETTERS
I'D LIKE TO KNOW THANK YOU THIS
BETTER COURTNEY I HAVE MY
MICROPHONE ON.
THANK YOU.
I DON'T THINK WE'VE EVER
RECEIVED MORE LETTERS IN
SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT LEAST
FROM THE TIME I'VE BEEN HERE.
YOU'VE BEEN HERE LONG LONGER.
CANDICE, I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT
THAT ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO
WROTE IN SUSAN WEINBERG WHEN
SHE SAYS IT IS ONE OF OUR
OLDEST BUILDINGS SHE'S THE
AUTHOR OF HISTORIC ANN ARBOR AN
ARCHITECTURAL GUIDE, A BOOK SHE
WROTE ABOUT IMPORTANT
PROPERTIES IN ANN ARBOR.
THEY ARE GONE AND SHE HAS
ANOTHER BOOK ENTITLED LOST TO
ANN ARBOR.
THEY'RE STILL AVAILABLE AT
AMAZON.
I READ THE HISTORIC NEVER BOOK
A NUMBER OF YEARS AGO IN
ADDITION TO EVERYBODY ELSE
JUMPING UP DOWN TO SAY THIS IS
THE GREAT PROJECT.
YOU KNOW THE FACT THAT SHE
THINKS IT'S AN IMPORTANT
PROJECT IS THE ADDITIONAL
WEIGHT FOR ME.
SO I'M JUST CALLING OUT THIS
ONE LETTER THIS IS SUCH AN EASY
THING TO SUPPORT SIMILAR AT THE
LAST PROJECT WE HAVE THESE
ZONING CODES THAT CAME IN LONG
AFTER THESE LOTS WERE DIVIDED,
THESE OLDER HOMES CREATED AND
THIS IS A NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
HIGH DEMAND FOR RENTAL
PROPERTIES, PEOPLE JUST RENTING
OUT TEMPORARY RESIDENCE AND IT
ALSO HAS A LOT OF PERMANENT
RESIDENCE OWNER OCCUPIED HOMES
AND THIS SORT OF A PROJECT IS
JUST THE KIND OF THING AND I'M
SURE IT'S WHY THERE'S SUCH AN
OUTPOURING OF SUPPORT FOR IT
FROM THE NEIGHBORS.
IT'S JUST THE KIND OF THING
THIS CITY NEEDS TO BASICALLY TO
KEEP THESE NEIGHBORHOODS
VIBRANT AND APPEALING TO
OWNER-OCCUPIED PEOPLE IN THE
STUDENT AREAS AND IT'S AN EASY
THING TO SUPPORT IT.
IT WILL HELP US MAINTAIN US AS
A VERY DIVERSE NEIGHBORHOOD
WITH OWNER OCCUPANTS AS WELL AS
RENTERS.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WE'RE
READY FOR MOST I CAN DO THAT
AGAIN.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
THREE DASTGIR ZERO TO FIVE
ELEVEN EAST AND STREET IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS VARIANCES FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
SUBSECTION EIGHT TO
NONCONFORMING LOT AND TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH THREE
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSIONS IN
ORDER TO CREATE A SECOND
DWELLING UNIT TO AN EXISTING
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENCE
VARIANCE OF 2027 SQUARE FEET AN
AREA AND THREE FEET AND LOT
WITH IS GRANTED TO ALLOW THE
SECOND UNIT ON THE SUBJECT
NONCONFORMING LOT ALL NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
GIVE SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
CHRISTINA YES TODD YES CHRIS
YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES DERMO YES DAVE.
DAVE ALREADY YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED MOVING
ON TO PETITION QUBA TWENTY
THREE DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO THREE
ONE ZERO ONE TO FILL ST. JOHN
ROB BERLE'S OF OUR STUDIOS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS SEEKING A VARIANCE FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT TO ZERO
LANDSCAPING GREEN IN BUFFERING
A 15 FOOT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IS REQUIRED ALONG THE
WEST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY WHERE
A SHARED DRIVEWAY IS LOCATED
AND A VARIANCE ON THE SOUTH
SIDE A LOT WHICH IS CURRENTLY
BEING USED FOR PARKING RELIEF
FROM SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY
TWO POINT TO ALTERATION TO AN
OK PERFORMANCE STRUCTURE IS
BEING REQUESTED AS THE
STRUCTURE IS BEING CONVERTED
FROM THREE UNITS TO FOUR UNITS.
THE EXISTING STRUCTURE CONTAINS
THREE UNITS WITH NINETEEN TOTAL
OCCUPANTS.
THE PETITIONER SEEKS TO
INCREASE TO FOUR UNITS WITH
TWENTY THREE OCCUPANTS.
THE PROPERTY IS ON OUR FORESE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF HILL
STREET WEST OF EAST UNIVERSITY
AVENUE ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
CAMPUS.
THE RESIDENCE IS APPROXIMATELY
THREE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED
THIRTY ONE SQUARE FEET IN SIZE
AND WAS BUILT IN 1910.
THE PARCEL IS CONFORMING FOR
THE LOT AREA WIDTH AND FRONT
AND REAR SETBACKS.
THE RESIDENCE DOES NOT MEET
EITHER OF THE REQUIRED 12 FOOT
SIDES IT BACKS.
THE RESIDENCE CURRENTLY
CONTAINS THREE DWELLING UNITS.
THE BASEMENT UNIT HAS FOUR
BEDROOMS WITH SIX OCCUPANT
OCCUPANTS.
THE FIRST FLOOR UNIT HAS TWO
BEDROOMS WITH FOUR OCCUPANTS
AND THE THIRD UNIT OCCUPIES THE
SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS WITH
NINE BEDROOMS AND NINE
OCCUPANTS FOR A NON PERFORMING
GROUP QUARTERS UNIT.
THE PROPOSED CHANGES INCLUDE A
SIX BEDROOM BASEMENT UNIT, A
SIX BEDROOM FIRST FLOOR UNIT, A
SIX BEDROOM SECOND FLOOR UNIT
AND THE FIVE BEDROOM THIRD
FLOOR UNIT.
THE NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL OCCUR
WITHIN THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
HOME AND THERE ARE NO NEW
ADDITIONS BEING PROPOSED.
BEFORE I GO ANY FURTHER ON YOUR
MOTION WORKSHEETS, THERE'S
GENERALLY THE FIVE CRITERIA FOR
GRANTING A VARIANCE AND THINGS
CHANGE RAPIDLY SOMETIMES IN
PLANNING AND I FORGOT ALL ABOUT
THIS BUT YOU CAN YOU DON'T HAVE
TO LOOK AT THE FIVE
REQUIREMENTS FOR A CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER
THE THEY HAVE
THERE ARE SEVERAL ALTERNATIVE
CRITERIA FOR SPECIFIC TYPES
OF VARIANCES AND ONE OF THEM IS
LANDSCAPING SCREENING AND
BUFFERING.
AND SO IT STATES IN THE CASE
OF AN APPLICATION FOR A
VARIANCE FROM THE LANDSCAPING
SCREENING AND BUFFERING
REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION FIVE
POINT TO A VARIANCE MAY BE
GRANTED FROM THE STRICT
APPLICATION OF THAT SECTION
WHEN THE EVIDENCE SUPPORTS THAT
THE PUBLIC BENEFIT INTENDED TO
BE SECURED WILL EXIST WITH LESS
THAN THE REQUIRED LANDSCAPING
AND GREENERY SCREENING.
SO THAT'S THE ONE CRITERIA THAT
THIS VARIANCE NEEDS TO MEET.
NOT ALL FIVE COULD YOU BE
DEAD ?
COULD YOU REPEAT THAT?
AND SO A VARIANCE MAY BE
GRANTED FROM THE STRICT
APPLICATION OF THIS SECTION
5.2.
OH, WHEN THE EVIDENCE SUPPORTS
THAT A PUBLIC BENEFIT INTENDED
TO BE SECURED WILL EXIST WITH
LESS THAN THE REQUIRED
LANDSCAPING OR SCREENING SO IT
DOESN'T NEED TO MEET THE FIVE
CRITERIA SHE'LL TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS THE
FIRST SLIDE IS THE ZONING MAP
AND YOU SEE THE HIGHLIGHTED
OBJECT PROPERTY AND THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN.
IT'S DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
UNIVERSE IN MICHIGAN TO THE
NORTH AND THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE
AERIAL PHOTO SHOWING
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS A ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY AND YOU CAN SEE LIKE I
SAID ON THE WEST SIDE OF THE
LOT ALONG HERE WHERE THEY'RE
REQUIRED TO PUT IT IN A
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER.
IT'S A SHARED DRIVEWAY SO THAT
MAKES IT DIFFICULT THERE AND
THEN AND THE SOUTH SIDE THERE
IS EXISTING PARKING.
A CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
IS NOT REQUIRED ALONG THE EAST
PROPERTY LINE BECAUSE IT IS
ADJACENT TO PROPERTY THAT ZONE
P.L. PUBLIC LAND AND IT'S OWNED
BY THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
THERE IS NO CONFLICT IN LANDY'S
BUFFER REQUIRED WHEN IT'S
ADJACENT TO THAT ZONING
DISTRICT.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT AND THAT THAT WAS ALL
OLDER SURVEY THAT WE DID FIND
AND IT'S A LITTLE DIFFICULT TO
READ.
SO THERE'S THE ZOOMED IN PHOTO
OF THE APPLICANT SUPPLIED AND
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT BETTER
THIS DESCRIPTION OF THE
PROPERTY SEE THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN AND THE REASON WHY THE
ALTERATION IS BEING REQUIRED IS
BECAUSE THERE'S EXISTING THREE
UNITS AND HE'S IN THAT PETITION
IS CALLING FOR AN INCREASE TO
FOUR AND IT DOES NOT MEET THE
SIDE SETBACK OF TWELVE FEET ON
THE EAST SIDE OR THE TWELVE 12
FOOT ON THE WEST EVEN THOUGH
THE FOOTPRINTS NOT BEING
CHANGED ARE NO ADDITIONS, THERE
ARE GOING UP A UNIT SO THAT
REQUIRES AN ALTERATION.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
PROPOSED BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN
AND THAT CONTAINS THE SIX
BEDROOMS AND THREE BATHROOMS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE FIRST
FLOOR AND IT SHOWS THE SIX
BEDROOMS AND THREE BATHS AND
THEIR BASICALLY ALMOST ALL
THESE FIRST THREE UNITS ARE
MIRRORED IMAGES OF EACH OTHER
AND THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
SECOND FLOOR SIX BEDROOMS,
THREE BATHS AND THEN THE
PROPOSED THIRD LEVEL FLOOR PLAN
WHICH WILL BE ELIMINATING THE
GROUP QUARTERS SITUATION AND
SUPPLYING FIVE BEDROOMS AND ONE
BATHROOM.
THE NEXT PHOTOS ARE THE PHOTOS
THAT WERE SUPPLIED BY THE
APPLICANT WITH THE APPLICATION
AND SOME INTERIOR PHOTOS.
I WILL LET THE APPLICANT
COMMENT ON THEM IF THEY CHOOSE
AND THESE ARE MY PHOTOS WHEN I
MADE IN MY INSPECTION YOU SEE
THE FRONT OF THE SEPARATE
PROPERTY, THE FRONT FACADE THIS
IS LOOKING DOWN THAT WAS
PROPERTY LINE AND THE SHARED
DRIVEWAY SITUATION AND YOU
COULD SEE THAT THIS IS WHERE
THE 15 FOOT CONFLICTING LANDY'S
BUFFER WOULD HAVE TO BE LOCATED
OR IS REQUIRED TO BE LOCATED.
THIS IS THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY AND SHOWING WHERE THE
EXISTING PARKING IS AND WHERE
THAT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IT IS BEING REQUIRED TO
BE INSTALLED.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
REAR FACADE OF THE PROPERTY
OF THE OF THE RESIDENCE AND
LOOKING TO THE EAST AND YOU SEE
THE EAST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
AND THE ADJACENT PROPERTY, THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PROPERTY
TO THE EAST.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY TO THE
EAST AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN PROPERTY THE PUBLIC
LAND, PUBLIC LAND ZONED
PROPERTY AND DIRECTLY TO THE
WEST THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY ADJACENT PROPERTY.
THAT CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION.
I WILL TAKE ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
IT WAS SIMILAR TO IF SOMEWHAT
OFF THE QUESTION THE PROPERTY
OF THE EAST IS MICHIGAN
PROPERTY IS THAT LARGE ENOUGH
TO BUILD ON?
IT LOOKS PRETTY SMALL.
IT'S A UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
IT'S AN OLD OFFICE BUILDING.
GOT IT LOOK LIKE ALSO THEY
DON'T HAVE TO COMPLY WITH
ZONING BUT IF IS WHAT'S THE
CONFLICTING USE TO THE WEST?
IS IT THAT A GROUP HOUSING IT'S
IT'S IT'S ALL MULTIPLE FAMILY
BUT CODE AND IT IT'S NOT WE'VE
BEEN DOWN THIS ROAD BEFORE AND
I AGREE 100 PERCENT IT'S NOT
CONFLICTING BUT THE CODE IS THE
CODE AND IT REQUIRES A BUFFER
EVEN AGAINST LIKE PROPERTIES IN
THE ZONING.
YES SIR.
WE'VE WE'VE ASKED THIS OUT
NUMEROUS TIMES.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
JOHN?
ALL RIGHT.
THE PETITIONER WOULD LIKE TO
COME FORWARD.
YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
HELLO AGAIN.
ROBERT ZOELLICK STUDIO
REPRESENTING MY MY CLIENT DOZEN
DIFFERENT CLIENT I SHOULD SAY
TO MY CLIENT AGAIN AND MR. I
100 PERCENT AGREE WITH YOUR
FLUMMOXED QUESTION.
I'VE NEVER UNDERSTOOD IT
EITHER.
IF ANYONE HERE WANTS TO SUPPORT
IT TO CITY COUNCIL I WOULD BE
100 SIGN BEHIND THEM.
SO IT'S CRAZY THAT WE HAVE TO
GO CONFLICTING LAND USE GETS
THE SAME ZONING DISTRICT THAT
SAME USES BUT SO IT IS SO
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS WE'RE
HERE.
THE OTHER IS THE ALTERATION TO
A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THERE'S SOME KEY THINGS TO
POINT OUT.
I DO NOT WANT TO LOOK AT THOSE
VOTERS AGAIN BECAUSE IT GIVE ME
THE HEEBIE JEEBIES IT IS I
DIDN'T WANT TO SHARE OTHERS
BECAUSE IT MAY FORCE A
CONDEMNATION OF THOSE VERSUS A
RESTORATION OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S IT IS TWO UNITS TO DWELL
ON UNITS THAT ARE DISTINCT
DWELLING UNITS AND THE THIRD
THE SECOND AND THIRD STORY THE
UPPER LEVEL, THE UPPER MOST
LEVEL AND THE ROOF LEVEL ARE
ACTUALLY A GROUP HOUSING.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO CLEAN UP A
LOT OF MESSES IN THIS
STRUCTURAL MESS IS WEIRD
ADAPTATION MESSES AND EVEN THE
REAR WHICH IT'S NOT NECESSARILY
A REQUIREMENT APPROVAL.
YOU SAW THAT CRAZY FUNKY STAIR
WRAPPING AROUND TWISTING LIKE
AN OCTOPUS THAT'S GETTING TORN
DOWN IN A NEW SECURE SAFE STAIR
WILL BE INSTALLED.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF TREMENDOUS
IMPROVEMENTS AND ONE OF THE BIG
THINGS IS CLEANING UP THE
ASPECT OF THE GROUP HOUSING
COMBINED WITH TWO ADDITIONAL
DWELLING UNITS YOU'LL SEE WE'RE
GOING FROM THREE DWELLING UNITS
CLINICALLY IN NINETEEN BEDS TO
WHICH BY THE WAY ARE NOT.
THERE'S ALSO ADDITIONAL
OCCUPANTS THAT COULD BE IN
THOSE BEDROOMS TWO FOUR
DWELLING UNITS AND TWENTY THREE
IF I'M NOT MISTAKEN TOTAL
BEDROOMS.
SO YES, IT'S A MODEST INCREASE
IN FULL INCREASE IN DWELLING
UNIT WHICH IS COMPLIANT AND NOT
ONLY THE DISTRICT BUT WITH THE
LOT SIZE AS WELL.
SO THERE'S NO ISSUES WITH THAT
.
THE CONFLICTING LAND USE IS
QUIRKY AS WE'VE ALREADY STATED
IT'S ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO AVOID
ON THE WEST SIDE OWING TO THE
FACT THAT WE HAVE A SHARED
DRIVEWAY BETWEEN BOTH BOTH ON
THIS PROPERTY AS WELL AS THE
SHARED ASPECT OF THE ADJOINING
PROPERTY THE REAR THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE WE HAVE IS WITH EVEN
WITH THE CURRENT NUMBER
OF DWELLING OCCUPANTS OF THAT
OF THAT PROPERTY.
THERE'S A THERE IS A QUITE A
FEW CARS REQUIRED TO PARK IT
ANYTHING TAKEN AWAY FROM THAT
IS GOING TO PUSH THE CAR
SOMEWHERE ELSE.
THE STREET, THE NEIGHBORHOODS,
EVERYTHING.
SO THAT'S REALLY THE BIGGER
ISSUE IN TERMS OF THE
CONFLICTING INTEREST ITSELF.
SO WITH THAT I'M HERE FOR
QUESTIONS OR ANYTHING ELSE.
PLEASE, MR. GRANT, TO ASK THE
OBVIOUS QUESTION FROM THE
PICTURE OF THIS DRIVEWAY.
THERE'S NOT A LOT TO SHARE A MY
SENSE FROM THE PHOTO IS ANY
BARRIER WILL ENTER THAT RENDER
THE DRIVEWAY COMPLETELY
USELESS.
IS THAT YOUR THAT'S VERY
ACCURATE.
YES.
THANK YOU, SIR.
BOB, JUST A QUICK QUESTION.
THE PROPERTY ON THE REAR SIDE
WHERE THE PARKING IS THAT WOULD
NEED A CONFLICTING LAND USE.
IS THAT ALSO A SIMILAR USE?
YES, THERE'S ACTUALLY I SHOULD
HAVE POINTED OUT AND I THINK
IT'S IDENTIFIED MIGHT BE ON MY
PLAN THAT THERE IS ACTUALLY A
MINOR RETAINING WALL THERE ON
TOP OF IT ALL DO SO.
BUT YES, IT IS ACTUALLY PARKING
AND I THINK AN EIGHTEEN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT IMMEDIATELY
ADJACENT TO IT.
SO NOT SOMETHING WILDLY
DIFFERENT TO THIS BLOCK.
IF YOU LOOK AT AN OVERALL AREA
IT'S ALMOST ALL THE SAME.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, CHRIS.
PLEASE THE DRIVEWAY AND I
APOLOGIZE I HAD TO STEP OUT
DURING THE PRESENTATION IS THE
DRIVEWAY JUST OR IS IT JUST A
VERBAL AGREEMENT?
IS THERE AN ACTUAL EASEMENT IN
PLACE THAT I DON'T HAVE THE
SLIGHTEST CLUE TO BE TOTALLY
HONEST WITH YOU, I BELIEVE IT'S
CERTAINLY VERBAL IS CLEARLY
UNDERSTOOD.
IN FACT I I I HAVEN'T BEEN
THERE IN A LITTLE WHILE.
I NOTICE THAT THERE'S NOW A
DUMPSTER UP FRONT.
I KNOW THERE'S A SECOND
DUMPSTER THERE USED TO BE IN
THE REAR OF IT.
SO MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT I
CAN CONFIRM THAT IT'S IT'S
THERE THERE IS NO OTHER ACCESS
TO IT SO I DON'T CALL IT IT HAS
TO BE HERE.
THANK YOU.
OF COURSE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THERE'S ANYONE FROM
THE PUBLIC
WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION.
PLEASE COME FORWARD NOW IF
YOU'RE ACCESSING THE MEETING
VIA THE WEBLINK OR BY PHONE
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND OR USE THE RAISED
HAND FEATURE.
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
I DON'T BELIEVE WE RECEIVED ANY
LETTERS OF SUPPORT OR OBJECTION
REGARDING THIS PROJECT.
SO WITH THAT SAID, THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION DAVE.
SO I'M GOING TO UNLESS SOMEBODY
ELSE WANTS TO I'M GOING TO BE
MAKING TWO SEPARATE MOTIONS ONE
FOR THE VARIANCE FOR THE TWO
HAVE A VARIANCE FROM THE
LANDSCAPE AND SCREENING AND
BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS AND THEN
AFTER THAT I'LL MAKE MOTION FOR
THE ALTERATION.
BUT I'M WILLING TO SPEAK TO
BOTH OF THESE RIGHT NOW AND TO
ME THE REQUIREMENT OF THE
VARIANCE OF THE LANDSCAPING TO
ME IS RIDICULOUS AND TO THE
DETRIMENT OF THE USE OF THIS
SITE FOR THE DRIVEWAY, ET
CETERA.
AND SO I'M GOING TO BE
SUPPORTING THAT AND THE ALTERIO
PORTION OF SUPPORT IT'S THERE
IS ABSOLUTELY NO CHANGE
OF FOOTPRINT AND THIS IS THE
KIND OF THING WHERE WE WERE
INCREASING THE DENSITY IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS REALLY
WHERE THE DENSITY IS.
I MEAN IT'S A VERY WALKABLE
IT'S A STUDENT NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO GIVEN THAT THERE'S NO
ADDITIONAL CHANGES TO THE
FOOTPRINT, NO FURTHER INCURSION
AND ANY SETBACKS, I'LL BE
SUPPORTING THE ALTERATION AS
WELL.
THANK YOU TO ANY OTHER
DISCUSSION.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR MOTION
NUMBER ONE ZIBA TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO THREE TEN
TWELVE HILL STREET IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT TWENTY LANDSCAPING
SCREENING AND BUFFERING A 15
FOOT CONFLICTING LANDSCAPE USE
BUFFER IS REQUIRED ALONG THE
WEST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY WHERE
A SHARED DRIVEWAY IS LOCATED IN
A VARIANCE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE LOT WHICH IS CURRENTLY
BEING USED FOR PARKING VARIANCE
REQUESTS IS TO ELIMINATE THE
BUFFER FROM THE WEST AND SOUTH
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY.
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DAVE.
THANK YOU CHRIS.
OK, JUST A REMINDER THIS IS THE
MOTION FOR THE CONFLICTING
LANDY'S BUFFER VARIANCES.
I VOTE YES DARMA.
YES DAVE DAVE ALREADY VOTES
YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
TODD YES.
CHRIS YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
SO DAVE, ARE YOU ALSO GOING TO
MAKE THE MOTION FOR THE I CAN'T
UNLESS SOMEBODY ELSE WOULD LIKE
TO ZIBA A TWENTY THREE DASH
ZERO ZERO ZERO THREE TEN TWELVE
HILL STREET ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE TO ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW FOURTH
UNIT IN AN EXISTING THREE UNIT
RENTAL PROPERTY.
THE EXISTING RESIDENCE IS BEING
CONVERTED FROM THREE UNITS WITH
NINETEEN BEDROOMS TO FOUR UNITS
WITH TWENTY THREE BEDROOMS.
NO NEW ADDITIONS OR CHANGES TO
THE EXISTING FOOTPRINT TO
COVER ALL RENOVATIONS ARE TO
TAKE PLACE ON THE INTERIOR
OF THE BUILDING.
ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
HAVE SUPPORT SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA.
YES DAVE DAVE ALREADY?
YES DHARMA.
YES I ALSO YES TODD.
YES CHRIS.
YES THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
THANK YOU FOR MOVING ON TO
PETITION QUBA TWENTY THREE DASH
ZERO ZERO ZERO FOUR FOUR THIRTY
FIVE BARBER AVENUE JOHN
PROPERTY OWNERS ARE REQUESTING
RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE POINT
THIRTY TWO POINT TWO ALTERATION
TO A NOT FOR ME STRUCTURE TO
CONSTRUCT A NEW BEDROOM AND
BATHROOM OVER THE EXISTING
GARAGE.
THE HOME IS LOCATED ON A CORNER
AND DOES NOT MEET THE REQUIRED
AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK ON THE
DUPONT'S CIRCLE SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY.
THE BEDROOM AND BATHROOM WILL
BE APPROXIMATELY NINE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF NEW LIVING SPACE
ABOVE THE EXISTING GARAGE.
THE PROPERTY ZONED ARE ONCE A
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF DEXTER
ROAD AT THE INTERSECTION
OF BARBER AVENUE AND DUPONT
CIRCLE AND THE EVERGREEN
SUBDIVISION.
THE HOME IS A MID CENTURY RANCH
CONSTRUCTED SOMETIME IN THE MID
1950S AND IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED EIGHTY
EIGHT SQUARE FEET AND AREA THE
OWNERS ARE PROPOSING A NEW
BEDROOM AND BATHROOM ABOVE THE
EXISTING FLAT ROOF GARAGE.
THE HOME IS CURRENTLY VACANT
AND WILL RECEIVE A COMPLETE
INTERIOR REMODEL WHEN FINISHED
THE HOME WILL CONTAIN FIVE
BEDROOMS AND THREE BATHROOMS.
THE HOME IS SEVEN FEET SIX
INCHES FROM THE FRONT LINE
ALONG DUPONT'S DUPONT CIRCLE
AND DOES NOT MEET THE REQUIRED
AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK
OF FIFTEEN FEET.
THE PROPOSED ADDITION DOES NOT
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE FRONT
STEP BACK AND NEW CONSTRUCTION
WILL BE VERTICAL.
IF YOU TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
THE MINERS YOU'LL SEE THE
SUBJECT PROPERTY IT'S
HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW AT THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN.
YOU CAN SEE IT AT THE CORNER
BARBER AND DUPONT CIRCLE THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE AERIAL
PHOTO OF THE SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
AABA LANDING'S COMMUNITY IS
DIRECTLY TO THE WEST ON THE
LEFT SIDE OF YOUR SCREEN AND
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS
HIGHLIGHTED HERE.
IT'S ZOOMED IN AND YOU CAN SEE
THERE'S THIS EXISTING FLAT ROOF
GARAGE IS WHERE THE PROPOSED
ADDITION IS GOING TO BE TAKE
PLACE AND IT'S GOING TO GO
DIRECTLY STRAIGHT UP VERTICAL
AND ON TOP OF THIS EXISTING
GARAGE AND IT DOESN'T MEET THE
AVERAGE FRONT STEP BACK ALONG
HERE FOR THE PROPERTIES THAT
ARE BEING AVERAGED BACK HERE IN
THE CIRCLE WITHIN ONE HUNDRED
FEET.
THIS IS THE SURVEY THAT WAS
SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND YOU CAN SEE RIGHT HERE AND
THE SURVEY SAYS SEVEN FEET SIX
INCHES.
SO IT'S APPROXIMATELY HALF
OF WHAT THE REQUIRED AVERAGE
ONCE UP BAKO FLUFFINESS.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE LOWER
LEVEL FLOOR PLAN.
YOU SEE THE EXISTING GARAGE AND
ITS RELATIONSHIP WITH THE REST
OF THE HOUSE AND THE INTERIOR
MODIFICATIONS AND UPDATES ARE
GOING TO TAKE PLACE.
YOU HAVE TWO BEDROOMS AND A
BATHROOM STORAGE AND LAUNDRY ON
THE LOWER LEVEL PLAN.
THE MAIN LEVEL PLAN SHOWS THE
EXISTING THE NEW MASTER BEDROOM
BATHROOM AND ANOTHER BATH OUR
BEDROOM A COUPLE OF BATHROOMS
AND THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
LOFT AND THE ROOF PLAN
OF ANOTHER MASTER BEDROOM.
THESE ARE ELEVATIONS FROM THE
FRONT AND NORTH SIDE.
YOU SEE THE BIG GARAGE THAT'S
RIGHT HERE THAT'S EXISTING AND
THEN THIS IS THE ADDITION
THAT'S GOING TO GO RIGHT ABOVE
IT
.
ANOTHER WEST ELEVATION, A SOUTH
ELEVATION.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS I TOOK
WHEN I WAS AT THE SITE DOING MY
INSPECTION SEE THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND THIS IS LOOKING DOWN
DUPONT CIRCLE AND YOU SEE THE
FACADE AND THE EXISTING FLAT
ROOF GARAGE AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE PROPERTIES IN THE IN THE
BACK OF DUPONT CIRCLE.
HERE'S A PICTURE OF THE
EXISTING FLAT ROOF GARAGE AND
THIS IS THE SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY THAT DOES NOT MEET THE
15 FOOT AVERAGE.
JUST ANOTHER PERSPECTIVE OF THE
EXISTING HOUSE AND THE GARAGE
WHERE THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
IS GOING TO TAKE PLACE AND THIS
IS THE BACKSIDE OF THE REAR
OF THE YARD IN THE BACK SIDE
OF THE HOUSE IN THE BACK SIDE
OF THE GARAGE THIS IS YOU CAN
SEE THE SURVEY STEAK AND
LOOKING DOWN DUPONT CIRCLE AND
AT THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE AND
THE SIDE OF THE HOUSE AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT CONCLUDES MY
PRESENTATION AND I CAN TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU MAY HAVE AT
THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
JUMP ANY QUESTIONS SO THE
GARAGE AT WHAT POINT WAS THAT
BILL WAS AT THE SAME TIME AS
THE MAIN HOUSE?
YES.
AS FAR AS I KNOW I HAD A
DIFFICULT TIME FINDING OUT
THERE THE ARCHITECT AND I
DISCUSSED IT.
THEY CAN PIN DOWN AN EXACT TIME
FRAME AND THE ASSESSOR'S OFFICE
I CONTACTED THEY SAID SOMETIME
IN THE MID 1950S OK, I SAID
ABOUT 1950 FIVE VERY DIFFICULT
TO PIN DOWN.
I CONTACTED THREE DIFFERENT
OFFICES TO TRY TO FIND A DATE
ON THIS HOUSE.
I COULDN'T PIN IT DOWN BUT AS
THE ARCHITECT I SAID AMIDST
COUNTRY IN 1955 STYLE.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, ALONG THE SAME LINES
IT WAS THIS AREA I MEAN THESE
ARE DIRT ROADS IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD, RIGHT?
THAT'S CORRECT.
IT WAS OUT IN THE TOWNSHIP ON
SUKARNO'S THE FIFTY FIVE WHEN
OUR ZONING CODES CAME INTO
COMPLIANCE.
THIS WAS ALL CAPTURED.
YEP.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
NO, I JUST WANTED TO MAKE NOTE
THAT THAT WAS FORMERLY A
TOWNSHIP PARCEL WHEN IT WAS
BUILT I WENT THE PETITIONERS
HERE UM PLEASE COME FORWARD IF
YOU ACCESSING ONLINE PERHAPS
MOMENTARILY MAYBE UH I'M IN THE
AREA THAT HAPPENED
AT THE
HOMEOWNER BUT I'D BE GLAD TO
GIVE A BRIEF EXPLANATION OR
ANSWER QUESTIONS CERTAINLY.
YES.
YOU HAVE FIVE MINUTES.
OK, YES.
BE POINTED OUT PRETTY MUCH IT
SEEMS LIKE PROJECT SIMILAR TO
WHAT YOU HAD EARLIER THIS
EVENING WHERE THE CURRENT
ZONING AND THE SETBACKS ARE
GIVING THEM HOW IT WAS BUILT
ESPECIALLY SINCE THIS WAS IN
THE TOWNSHIP.
BUT THE KEY ELEMENT IS THAT
IT'S ON THE CORNER IN THE
DUPONT CIRCLE IF CONSIDERS THAT
FRONT YARD IT REALLY LEAVES NO
SPACE AT ALL FOR A BUILDING AND
IN FACT THE HOUSE IS ABOUT
HALFWAY INTO THE IF THAT'S
CONSIDERED AS A FRONT YARD IF
THE ADDRESS IS OWNED BY STREET,
IS THAT CONSIDERED THE FRONT
YARD AND THE CORNER THE CORNER
SIDE DUPONT CIRCLE IF IT'S
CONSIDERED A SIDE YOU HAVE THE
SET BACKS AND THE IT WOULD BE
CONFORMING.
SO IT'S PRETTY MUCH, YOU KNOW,
BUILDING A DESISTING ROOF
GARAGE WHICH WAS DESIGNED
ORIGINALLY TO HAVE A STRUCTURE
OVER THERE WAS NEVER BUILT.
WE LOOKED AT THE YOU KNOW, THE
ROOF ARE REALLY, REALLY
DESIGNED TO BE LIKE A FLOOR
STRUCTURE AT ANY RATE.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING
.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING I ALSO
HAVE A PICTURE OF MORE IN
KEEPING WITH THE HOUSE AND
ACTUALLY THIS CLIMATE AS I'M
SURE MANY OF YOU KNOW, I
BELIEVE IS QUITE A BIT
OF SUPPORT FROM OUR NEIGHBORS.
THERE'S EMAILS THAT HAVE BEEN
SENT ALSO THAT THE HOMEOWNER
HAS BEEN TALKING TO THE
NEIGHBORS MET SIGNIFICANT.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I DO IS QUESTIONS ALL RIGHT.
YES.
SO ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD IF YOU'RE ACCESSING VIA
THE WEB LINK OR BY PHONE,
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR CLICK
THE RAISE HAND BUTTON.
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
I WILL NOTE WE DID RECEIVE
LETTERS OF SUPPORT FROM MORRIS
LAWRENCE AT FOUR TWENTY SEVEN
BARBOUR AVENUE ROBERT LEVINE
AND BEATRICE ASGHARI AT FOUR
TWENTY FOUR BARBOUR AVENUE
KENWORTH ROBIN AT FOUR SEVENTY
FIVE BARBARA RUSSELL HANKINS
AND RACHEL CCILIA AT FOUR
THIRTY BARBARA TIMOTHY PERKINS
AT FOUR SEVENTY SIX BARBARA
ANTHONY SMITH AT FOUR SIXTY
FIVE DUPONT CIRCLE AND
CATHERINE SHOT AT FOUR FIFTY
THREE DUPONT CIRCLE WITH THAT
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND ONE DISCUSSION CHRIS.
OH YEAH SO I'M GOING TO SUPPORT
IT SEEMS TO CLEARLY MEET THE
STANDARDS FOR ALTERATIONS I
JUST WANT TO SAY I'VE NEVER
BEEN TO DUPONT CIRCLE.
I'VE HEARD A LOT ABOUT IT JUST
A LITTLE DIFFERENT THAN I
PICTURED.
YOU KNOW, ANY OTHER DISCUSSION
WE READY FOR EMOTION?
SURE.
BUT BEFORE I MAKE THE MOTION
I'D I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW WE HAD A
DUPONT CIRCLE IN ANN ARBOR.
BUT I'VE BEEN TO THE DUPONT
CIRCLE IN WASHINGTON, D.C. MANY
TIMES AND THIS IS QUITE A BIT
DIFFERENT.
THE MOTIONS IBA TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ZERO ZERO FOUR FOUR
THIRTY FIVE BARBER AVENUE
ALTERATION TO A NONCONFORMIST
STRUCTURE.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
HEREBY GRANTS RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TO ALTERATION TO WOULD
NOT INFORMANT STRUCTURE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW
BEDROOM AND BATHROOM ABOVE AN
EXISTING GARAGE THAT DOES NOT
MEET THE AVERAGE FRONT SET BACK
ALONG DUPONT CIRCLE.
THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS WILL NOT
ENCROACH FURTHER INTO THE
EXISTING FRONT SET BACK.
THE ADDITION IS TO BE BUILT PER
THE ATTACHED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA.
I VOTE YES DERMO YES DAVE
DIWATA YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
TODD YES.
CHRIS YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY THREE DASH ZERO ZERO
ZERO FIVE NINE TWENTY SIX
GREENWOOD AVENUE JOHN DAVID
LEWIS REPRESENTING PROPERTY
OWNER IS REQUESTING RELIEF FROM
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT TWO SUBSECTION C
ALTERATION TO NOT CONFORMING
STRUCTURE TO CONVERT THE
EXISTING ATTACHED GARAGE TO NEW
HABITABLE SPACE.
THE NEW THE NEW SPACE WILL
ACCOMMODATE AN APPROXIMATE ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY SEVEN SQUARE FOOT
BEDROOM.
THE PARCEL IS NONCONFORMING FOR
LOT AREA WITH AND THE RESIDENCE
DOES NOT MEET THE REQUIRED SET
BACKS FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED OUR
FORESEE MULTIPLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS ON THE
SOUTH SIDE OF GREENWOOD AVENUE
BETWEEN HACKET STREET AND TAPAN
STREET.
THE RESIDENCE WAS CONSTRUCTED
IN NINETEEN FIFTEEN AND IS
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SIX SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE.
THE PROPERTY IS A CERTIFIED
RENTAL HOME THAT RECENTLY
RECEIVED A BUILDING PERMIT FOR
INTERIOR ALTERATIONS TO EXPAND
FROM A THREE BEDROOM TO A FIVE
BEDROOM SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
THE PROPOSED BEDROOM IN THE
ATTACHED GARAGE WOULD INCREASE
THE TOTAL BEDROOM COUNT TO SIX
.
THE PROPERTY IS A CERTIFIED
RENTAL HOME THAT RECENTLY OH I
JUST READ THAT THE PROPOSED
BEDROOM IN THE ATTACHED GARAGE
WOULD INCREASE THE BEDROOM
TOTAL BEDROOM COUNT THE SIX THE
EXISTING GARAGE IS LOCATED FIVE
FEET TO THE SIDE LOFT LINE AND
FOUR FEET NINE INCHES TO THE
REAR OUTLINE THE OUR FORCES
ZONING DISTRICT REQUIRES A
MINIMUM THIRTY FOOT GUARD SET
THAT TO TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
YOUR MONITORS.
YOU'LL SEE THE ZONING MAP AND
THE HIGHLIGHTED SUBJECT
PROPERTY IN YELLOW AT THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE AERIAL
PHOTO SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT
WITH THE APPLICATION AND THIS
IS THE ATTACHED GARAGE AND THIS
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY AND WHERE
IT SAYS IT'S FOUR FEET NINE
INCHES THE LIGHT ONE THE NEXT
SLIDE IS A FIVE SITE PLAN THAT
WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS A FIRST FLOOR PLAN AND
YOU SEE THE ATTACHED GARAGE AT
THE TOP OF THE SCREEN AND THEN
THE PROPOSED CONVERSION ON THE
INTERIOR TO A BEDROOM THAT'S
GOT AN ACCESS OUT THE BACK SIDE
TO THE REAR AND THEN INTO THE
HOME RIGHT HERE THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS THE ELEVATION, THE NORTH
ELEVATION, THE FRONT END.
YOU SEE THE ATTACHED GARAGE TO
THE LEFT ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE
.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE EAST SIDE
ELEVATION LOOKING DIRECTLY AT
THE HOUSE AND THE SIDE
ELEVATION OF THE GARAGE.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK ON MY INSPECTION OF THE
HOUSE.
YOU SEE THE GARAGE ON THE LEFT
HAND SIDE RIGHT HERE CINDER
BLOCK STYLE GARAGE.
THIS IS THE DRIVEWAY LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT THE GARAGE.
ANOTHER ASPECT OF THE EXISTING
GARAGE IN ITS CURRENT
CONDITION.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE GARAGE
AND THE RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REAR LINE APPROXIMATELY TO THE
FENCE WHICH IS THE DISTANCE
OF JUST UNDER FIVE FEET.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE
ABERDEEN PROPERTY, THE GARAGE
AND HOW IT'S RELATIONSHIP TO
THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
LOOKING DOWN THE SIDE LOT LINE
OUT TOWARDS GREENWOOD AND THE
GARAGE TO THE LEFT JASON
PROPERTY TO THE RIGHT AND THIS
IS ONE OF THE FLOOR PLANS THAT
WAS SUBMITTED THE EXISTING
BASEMENT AND ITS PERMIT
APPLICATION WHICH IS A BUILDING
PERMIT TWENTY TWO DASH THIRTY
TWENTY THIRTY EIGHT TWENTY
EIGHT.
I JUST BRING THIS TO YOUR
ATTENTION.
THE PLANS CALL FOR A SIX
BEDROOM HOUSE BUT WHEN THIS
PERMIT WAS SUBMITTED THE PERMIT
SHOWS A FIVE BEDROOM AS I'M
SHOWING MY CURSOR IN THE
BASEMENT AND THEN YOU HAVE A
REC ROOM WITH A CLOSET AND
EGRESS WINDOW AND A STUDY ROOM
TO THE OTHER SIDE OF IT WITH AN
AGGRESSIVE WINDOW JUST GOING TO
PRESENT THE FACTS.
I YOU IT APPEARS THAT WE'VE GOT
A THEY'RE GOING TO GO FOR A SIX
BEDROOM HOUSE WHICH THEY'RE
ALLOWED TO HAVE SIX OCCUPANTS
IN OUR FORESE AND THEY'RE
CALLING FOR SIX BEDROOMS BUT
WITH ALONG WITH A REC ROOM AND
THE STUDY ROOM THAT IS THE END
OF MY PRESENTATION.
I TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE PLEASE
COME FORWARD, STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID LEWIS.
I AM THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROJECT.
I THINK JOHN COVERED ALL THE
DETAILS PRETTY WELL.
BASICALLY THERE IS A UNUSED
ATTACHED GARAGE TO THIS HOUSE
AND THE HOMEOWNER IS INTERESTED
IN CONVERTING IT INTO A BEDROOM
.
THERE'S BASICALLY NO CHANGES TO
THE OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE.
OTHER THAN THE EXISTING GARAGE
DOOR WILL BECOME A REGULAR WALL
WITH WINDOWS IN IT.
THEY SAID THE GARAGE AS YOU CAN
SEE AND AS I PLAN THE GARAGES
IS WITHIN THE REAR YARD.
SO THAT IS WHY WE ARE REQUIRED
TO SEEK PERMISSION TO ALTER
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
THIS IS A YOU KNOW, VERY DENSE
STUDENT POPULATED NEIGHBORHOOD
AND AND AS I SAID, THE GARAGE
IS BEING UNUSED CURRENTLY AND
THE OWNER IS INTERESTED IN
HAVING IT USE SO WE CAN HOUSE
MORE PEOPLE THAN EVER.
I HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD.
I'M AVAILABLE FOR ANY QUESTIONS
IF ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
SO WE HAVE A LETTER HERE FROM
SOMEBODY THAT BASICALLY SAYS
HI, I'M A STUDENT AT THE U OF M
SPENT A LOT OF TIME LOOKING FOR
A PLACE TO RENT WHEN GOING TO
VIEW THE HOUSE AT NINE TWENTY
SIX SIX GREENWOODS THEY
PRESENTED THE HOUSE AS A SEVEN
BEDROOM AFTER THEIR RENOVATIONS
BUT WHEN IT CAME TO SIGNING
ANYTHING THEY ONLY WANTED FIVE
SIGNATURES ASKING MORE ABOUT
THIS THEY SAID THAT WE WOULD
HAVE TO REMOVE TWO BEDS IF
ANYONE WERE TO COME BY AND THIS
THREW UP A BUNCH OF RED FLAGS
SAYING THAT THEY COULDN'T CALL
THE REC ROOM IN THE BASEMENT
AND STUDY ON THE FIRST FLOOR AS
BEDROOMS BUT STILL MARKETING
THE ROOMS TO US AS IF THEY WERE
BEDROOMS.
NOW I KNOW THIS KIND OF THING
GOES ON IN THE RENTAL MARKET
AND I'M GENERALLY WHEN I HEAR
ABOUT IT IT REALLY UPSETS ME
BECAUSE IT'S TOTALLY DODGING
ALL OF OUR ORDINANCES AND
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MARKETING
OF RENTAL HOUSING AND IT'S MY
CONCERN READING THIS LETTER IS
THOSE ROOMS ARE STILL THERE NOW
IF WE TURN THIS INTO A BEDROOM,
DOES THAT MEAN THAT THE
LANDLORD IS GOING TO TRY TO
RENT IT TO EIGHT PEOPLE USING
THESE OTHER ROOMS?
I'M NOT ASKING THAT AS A
QUESTION TO YOU.
I'M JUST PROPOSING THIS.
BUT THAT'S WHAT I THINK WHAT I
SEE THAT'S COME BEFORE US.
RIGHT.
SO I'M JUST PUTTING THAT OUT
THERE AND I'LL DISCUSS IT
FURTHER WHEN WE COME AT THIS.
OK, AS FAR AS I KNOW THE
LANDLORD AND HE CAN SPEAK FOR
HIMSELF THAT HE'S AS FAR AS I
UNDERSTAND IT, IT'S GOING TO BE
RENTING FOR SIX PEOPLE.
I KNOW THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER MUSTAFA ALI.
I'VE BEEN I'VE BEEN IN THE
RENTAL BUSINESS FOR THE PAST
TWENTY YEARS.
I AM IN LOVE WITH THE REAL
ESTATE AND HOUSING.
I WAS DOING THE RENTING
BUSINESS BACK HOME WHEN BEFORE
I MIGRATE TO THIS COUNTRY I
WORKED REALLY HARD FOR MYSELF
AND FOR THE STUDENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE THAT SOME
STUDENTS GET GET MAD, YOU KNOW
AND THEY ARE YOUNGER AND THEY
GET EMOTIONAL AND THEY TRY TO
TO TO DO SOME DAMAGE.
WE WOULD NOT DO SUCH A THING
AND I DON'T THINK THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE WOULD DO.
SO WE WE KNOW HOW TO ENFORCE
THE ZONING.
WE MAKE IT VERY CLEAR ON THE
CONTRACT IS FOR THIS NUMBER
OF PEOPLE ACCORDING TO THE CITY
ZONING AND WE DO INSPECTIONS
REGULAR INSPECTIONS OF THE
PROPERTY JUST IN CASE THERE IS
ANY VIOLATION.
AND MR. BARRETT PROBABLY KNOWS
I HAVE A VERY CLEAN RECORD WITH
THE CITY.
I'VE BEEN DEALING WITH THE CITY
FOR THE PAST TWENTY YEARS AT
LEAST I KNOW THE OLDER PEOPLE
YOU KNOW THERE'S A LOT
OF PEOPLE, NEW PEOPLE COMING UP
BUT BUT LIKE LOOK AT MY RECORD
WITH A CITY I NEVER HAD A
PROBLEM WITH THE CITY SO THAT'S
THAT'S HOW I THAT'S HOW I
PRESENT IT.
SO THANK ANY QUESTIONS?
HOW MANY PROPERTIES DO YOU OWN
A TWENTY SEVEN AND DO YOU HAVE
A MANAGER MANAGER OR MANAGER
MANAGEMENT COMPANY.
I HAVE HELPED YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
PEOPLE HELPED ME OUT.
YOU'RE THE PRIMARY MANAGER AND
YOU'RE AN AUTHORITY.
SO YES, WHEN WHEN I SEE A
LETTER LIKE THIS ABOUT RENTING
IT AS A PRESENTING IT AS A
SEVEN BEDROOM ARE YOU SAYING
THAT THIS I'M NOT REALLY I'M
NOT AWARE OF THIS STUDENT.
IT COULD IS SOMEONE ELSE SHOW
IT TO SHOW THAT I'M NOT REALLY
BUT BUT WE WOULD NOT DO SO WHEN
DID YOU ACQUIRE THIS PROPERTY
RECENTLY?
I THINK NOVEMBER 22.
OK, SO THIS IS A NEW CORRECT
ANY LONGER IT WILL BE HIGHER
AND HIGHER STANDARD PROPERTY
GRANITE COUNTERTOPS OR
STAINLESS STEEL APPLIANCES THAT
WILL BE ABOVE AVERAGE STUDENT
FRONT OF MAKE IT.
YOU ACQUIRED THIS IN NOVEMBER.
I HAVE YOU PRESENTED IT TO
TENANTS FUTURE POTENTIAL FUTURE
TENANTS SINCE YOU ACQUIRED IT
OR IS ANYBODY IN YOUR
EMPLOYMENT ON THAT?
I MEAN USUALLY THE WAY WE DO IT
WE ADVERTISE IT AND WE SHOW IT
TO STUDENTS YOU KNOW THEY THEY
CAN LOOK AT IT.
I DID NOT SHOW IT MYSELF, OK,
BUT OTHERS PROBABLY YOU KNOW I
HAVE HELPERS OK?
I SHOW IT YOU KNOW.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, I DON'T SEE
ANYONE HERE.
BUT IF THERE'S ANYONE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY, PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND OR USE THE RIGHT HAND
FUNCTION THERE DON'T APPEAR TO
ANY CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
I BELIEVE THEY'VE NOTED THE ONE
CORRESPONDENCE THAT WE RECEIVED
ON THIS PETITION.
SO WITH THAT THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
I JUST HAVE A QUESTION IF
CONSIDERING THIS KIND
OF CONCERN IS RELEVANT TO THIS
DECISION, I DON'T KNOW IF STAFF
COULD ADVISE OR OTHER SORT
OF BALANCE FOR LONGER, HUH?
I'LL GO.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT IT SHOULD
REALLY BE A FACTOR IN HER
DECISION.
IT'S UPSETTING TO ME BECAUSE
THIS EMAIL WAS NOT IN RELATION
TO A NOTICE THAT WAS SENT OUT A
STUDENT TOOK IT UPON THEMSELVES
SEPARATELY FROM ALL OF THIS TO
SEND IT IN AND SO I BUT IT'S
HARD TO GET STUDENTS TO
ANYTHING AND SO THE FACT THAT
THEY SENT IT IN IS PRETTY
CONCERNING AND I HOPE YOU TAKE
THEIR CONCERNS SERIOUSLY AND I
HOPE THE CITY DOES TOO.
I DON'T THINK THAT AT LEAST I
DON'T THINK THAT IS APPROPRIATE
FOR US TO USE THIS VOTE AS A
WAY TO TO PUNISH SOMEONE FOR
THIS.
ERM I THINK THERE ARE BETTER
MORE APPROPRIATE AVENUES FOR
THE CITY TO TAKE.
I DON'T FEEL GREAT ABOUT IT BUT
I WILL NOT BE VOTING JUST THE
TWO CONSIDERATIONS AND I THINK
MATT AND I JUST DON'T WANT TO
USE IT AS A VEHICLE AN
APPROPRIATE VEHICLE TO YOU KNOW
TAKE OUT SOME HOWEVER I FEEL
ABOUT IT SO I'LL BE VOTING TO
SUPPORT IT.
TAKE I THINK IT IS APPROPRIATE
TO CONSIDER THIS THE STANDARD
THAT SLIM STANDARDS THAT WE
HAVE TO EVALUATE ALTERATIONS IS
WE CAN APPROVE IT IF THE IF A
PART OF FINDING THAT IT
COMPLIES IS NEARLY AS
PRACTICABLE WITH THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CHAPTER
WHICH IT DOES AND THAT IT WILL
NOT HAVE DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY, I WOULD
ARGUE THAT ANYBODY OPERATING A
BUSINESS LIKE THIS AND TRYING
TO GO AROUND OUR HOUSING
REQUIREMENTS TO ADD EXTRA
BEDROOMS IN QUOTATION MARKS TO
GET MORE RESIDENTS IN TO MAKE
MORE MONEY IS IS A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
AND NEIGHBORING BYONG THIS
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT THROUGHOUT THE COMMUNITY
AND HE'S ALREADY GOT THIS
STRUCTURE ALREADY HAS TWO ROOMS
THAT ARE TRYING TO MASQUERADE A
REC ROOM AND A STUDY AND NOW
WE'RE CONSIDERING ADDING
ANOTHER ROOM THAT WE'LL SAY IS
A BEDROOM.
I'M JUST GOING TO VOTE AGAINST
IT AND I THINK IT'S A
LEGITIMATE CONSIDERATION
BECAUSE IT'S WITHOUT QUESTION
THAT THIS DOING BUSINESS LIKE
THIS HAS A DETRIMENTAL EFFECT
ON NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
WELL, I'M GOING TO DISAGREE
WITH DAVE.
I ALWAYS GO UP A LITTLE OF WHAT
I DO THIS BECAUSE DAVID ALWAYS
THINKS THROUGH HIS THINGS
CAREFULLY AND IS VERY
CONSCIENTIOUS OF PUTTING ON MY
LAWYER HAT.
THE LETTER IS HEARSAY.
THE RIGHT OF LETTER IS NOT HERE
BUT I DO AGREE WITH CHRIS'S
COMMENT THAT IS COMPLETELY
IRRELEVANT TO WHAT WE HAVE TO
CONSIDER THAT THESE
NONCONFORMING USES ARE PRETTY
EASY.
THAT SAID, I HAVE BEEN A LITTLE
UNHAPPY WITH THE WAY THE
LANDLORDS IN TOWN FROM MY
READING THE VARIOUS THINGS THAT
ARE GOING ON IN THE CITY IN
MICHIGAN ALIEN LEIVE ET CETERA,
ET CETERA WHILE THE LANDLORDS
THE GROUP HAD SOUGHT TO GAME
THE EFFORTS BY THE CITY TO PUSH
BACK ON MAKING PEOPLE HAVE JUST
ARRIVED IN ANN ARBOR MONTHS
AHEAD SINOR REQUIRE FOR THE
NEXT YEAR I THINK LANDLORDS
DOING THIS IN THIS TOWN IT'S A
LITTLE FRANKLY IN MY OPINION
SLEAZY TO MAKE SOMEBODY WHO'S
BEEN IN TOWN FOR A COUPLE
OF MONTHS TO DECIDE WHERE TO
GO, WHERE THEY'RE GOING TO LIVE
A YEAR FROM WHEN THEY SHOW UP
IN ANN ARBOR.
I THINK THAT'S JUST HARD
BUSINESS APPROACH AND THEY'VE
MANAGED TO GET AROUND AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE CURRENT
STATUS OF THAT ORDINANCE IS BUT
IT HAS A BAD ODOR IN MY
OPINION.
THAT SAID, PEOPLE RENTING
BEYOND THE AMOUNT OF OCCUPANTS
THAT ARE PROPER IN THE HOME TO
MAXIMIZE THEIR REVENUE I'M SURE
GOES
ON IN THIS CITY.
BUT IT'S NOT THE JOB OF THE
ZONING BOARD TO FERRET THAT
OUT.
ONE COULD ARGUE THAT THIS
LETTER PUTS THE CITY ON NOTICE
THAT THE PEOPLE WHO DO PROPERTY
INSPECTIONS SHOULD BURDEN THIS
PROPERTY OR MAYBE MORE OF MR.
ALL THESE PROPERTY.
BUT BUT AGAIN, THIS IS HEARSAY
AND I THINK EVEN DOING THAT ON
THE BASIS OF THE LETTER WHEN
THE PERSON DOESN'T EVEN HAVE
THE GUTS TO SHOW UP AND SAY
THAT HE WROTE THE LETTER IS
QUITE ASKANCE, I THINK IT WOULD
BE IMPROPER FOR US TO CONSIDER
THIS.
I THINK I CAN'T EVEN TAKE AN
OPINION ABOUT MR. ROWLEY.
WE SIMPLY HAVE SOMEBODY THAT'S
UNHAPPY.
I HAVE NO EVIDENCE AT ALL THAT
WE SHOULD LOOK ASKANCE AT MR.
ALI WHAT HE'S DOING THIS IS
GOING TO BE A VERY EASY YES FOR
ME AND PERUTZ OF THE SMOKE IF
THERE'S ANY FIRE IN THERE ARE
OTHER AVENUES IN THE CITY TO
DEAL WITH.
IT IS NOT FOR US TO DO THIS.
IT WOULD BE COMPLETELY
INAPPROPRIATE FOR US TO IN ANY
WAY CONSIDER THIS LETTER.
SO A CITY STAFF IT'S MY
RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLY THIS
BOARD WITH ALL THE INFORMATION
THAT I HAVE AVAILABLE TO ME AND
SO I FEEL THAT I WOULD BEEN
DERELICT IN MY DUTIES IF I
DIDN'T GIVE YOU THE CURRE OF THD
WHEN I REVIEWED THE PLAN WHEN
I'M REVIEWING THESE BUILDING
PERMITS I LOOK AT THIS AND I
SEE BEDROOM FIVE AND THEN I SEE
TWO OTHER ROOMS THAT APPEAR TO
BE BEDROOMS AND THEN A WEEK
LATER I GET AN ALTERATION TO AN
CONFORMING STRUCTURE WITH
ANOTHER BEDROOM IN A GARAGE.
SO I'M NOT SPEAKING ON BEHALF
OF THIS PROPERTY OR AGAINST
EITHER WAY I'M JUST GIVING YOU
ALL THE INFORMATION THAT I HAVE
AVAILABLE AT MY FINGERTIPS TO
SUPPLY TO YOU.
AND THIS EMAIL IS SOMETHING
THAT'S VALUABLE AND IT CAME TO
MY OFFICE.
IT CAME TO MY DESK AND AS I WAS
PREPARING THIS APPLICATION I
FELT THAT THAT WAS MY
RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLY IT
WITH YOU AND THE FACT THAT I
REVIEW THESE PLANS AND IF
SOMEONE PUTS 20 BEDROOMS ON A
PLAN AND THEY CAN ONLY HAVE SIX
OCCUPANTS, I PUT THAT ON EVERY
ONE OF THE NOTES ON THE PERMITS
I SAY MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY OF SIX.
I STILL HAVE TO PROVE THE PLAN
EVEN IF THEY HAVE 20 BEDROOMS
BECAUSE WE CANNOT ENFORCE WHAT
WE CAN ENFORCE.
BUT THAT'S THE REASONING FOR
WHY I SUPPLIED THIS BOARD WITH
ALL THE INFORMATION THAT I HAD
AVAILABLE TO ME I FEEL LIKE I
WOULD HAVE DONE WITHHOLD
SOMETHING IF I DIDN'T SUPPLY
YOU WITH THAT INFORMATION
TONIGHT JOHN.
I TOTALLY AGREE WITH YOU.
YOU'RE ALWAYS VERY THOROUGH AND
I THINK YOU WERE RIGHT TO
PRESENT THE LETTER.
I'M JUST DISAPPOINTED THE
PERSON DIDN'T SHOW UP AT
ETEMAD.
WELL, I DON'T THINK THEY THEY
DIDN'T KNOW THAT THIS HEARING
WAS TAKING PLACE ABOUT US
BECAUSE THEY AREN'T ADJACENT
THEY ARE PROBABLY WITHIN 300.
SO THEY WERE NEVER NOTIFIED.
I NEVER CONTACTED THEM AND TOLD
THEM TO COME TO THIS MEETING.
I JUST WHEN THIS CAME TO MY
EMAIL BOX, WHICH IS SOMETHING
THAT'S VALUABLE, I FELT THAT MY
DUTY TO SUPPLY THIS TO THIS
WITH THIS APPLICATION I AGREE
YOU'RE ALWAYS VERY THOROUGH.
YOU'VE ALWAYS ANSWERED MY EVEN
OBSCURE DIFFICULT QUESTIONS.
SO NOTHING AGAINST YOU WASN'T
INTENDED THAT WAY AT ALL.
I'M JUST SAYING THAT IF THE
LANDLORD IS GAMING THE NUMBER
OF OCCUPANTS TO PUMP UP REVENUE
THERE IS THAT THERE ARE
DIFFERENT PEOPLE IN THE CITY TO
WHACK A LANDLORD AND DEAL WITH
THAT WE HAVE A RENT.
YOU COULD ARGUE THIS PUTS THE
CITY ON NOTICE THAT THE OTHER
CHECK THIS OUT AND MAYBE IT
MIGHT BE MORE THAN A PATTERN
OF ONE BUT I HAVE NO OPINION
ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
I'M JUST SAYING THAT FOR WHAT
WE DECIDE TODAY IT SHOULD NOT
BE RELEVANT.
BUT I CAN TELL YOU FOR ME IT'S
RELEVANT UNDERSTOOD.
I'M SORRY.
I FEEL LIKE I'M INTUITING THAT
MAYBE YOU ARE TELLING ME THAT
THERE ARE RED FLAGS RAISED BY
THE PLANS THEMSELVES.
I WILL BE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
HONEST WITH YOU LIKE I ALWAYS
HAPPEN WHEN I IF IT WAS A CAUSE
OF CONCERN THAT'S ALL I'M
SAYING.
IT WAS A CONCERN.
I REVIEW THE PLANS AND I I JUST
SAW WHAT I SAW AND THEN A WEEK
LATER I GET THIS IN MY EMAIL
BOX SO THAT'S THAT'S WHERE I'M
AT AND LIKE I SAID I'M NOT
SUPPORTING THIS PROJECT AND I'M
NOT DENYING THIS PROJECT.
I'M JUST SUPPLYING YOU WITH ALL
THE INFORMATION I HAVE AT AT
THAT I HAVE AVAILABLE FOR YOU
TO MAKE A DECISION AND WHAT'S
THE WORD I'M LOOKING FOR THE
BEST POSSIBLE INTELLECTUAL
DECISION YOU CAN MAKE WITH ALL
THE FACTS THAT YOU HAVE AT YOUR
DISPOSAL.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WE READY
FOR EMOTION IF ANYBODY DECIDE
THEY WANT TO FILL MY ROLE
PERFECT.
THIS IS GOD AND YOU HAVE NO
ZONING.
BOARD OF APPEAL APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS RELIEF FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY TWO POINT TWO
ALTERATION TO ENOCHIAN FORMIC
STRUCTURE TO ALLOW THE
CONVERSION OF AN EXISTING
NONCONFORMING ATTACHED GARAGE
TO BE CONVERTED TO NEW
HABITABLE SPACE.
THE NEW SPACE WILL ACCOMMODATE
AN APPROXIMATE ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY SEVEN SQUARE FOOT
BEDROOM.
THE INTERIOR ALTERATION IS NOT
TO BE IS TO BE CONSTRUCTED PER
THE SUBMITTED PLANS THE MOTION
OF SUPPORT SQUARE.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA CHRIS.
YES TODD YES CHRISTINA YES.
I ALSO VOTE YES DAVE DEVADASI
NO DRAMA YES THE REQUEST IS
GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
I DON'T BELIEVE WE HAVE ANY NEW
WE HAVE ADDRESSED
BUSINESS.
COMMUNICATIONS.
WE HAVE ADDRESSED
I BELIEVE THAT JUST ALL
COMMUNICATIONS.
COMMUNICATIONS I SEE YOU
I BELIEVE THAT JUST ALL
DAD ONE ONE SECOND
COMMUNICATIONS I SEE YOU
COMMUNICATIONS I BELIEVE WE
DAD ONE ONE SECOND
ADDRESSED WITH EACH PETITION
COMMUNICATIONS I BELIEVE WE
PUBLIC COMMENT SINCE THERE IS
ADDRESSED WITH EACH PETITION
NO ONE ELSE HERE, IS THERE
PUBLIC COMMENT SINCE THERE IS
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
NO ONE ELSE HERE, IS THERE
REMOTELY WHO WISHES TO ADDRESS
ANYONE ACCESSING THE MEETING
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
REMOTELY WHO WISHES TO ADDRESS
REGARDING ANYTHING?
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
REGARDING ANYTHING?
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
THERE DON'T APPEAR TO BE ANY
THANK YOU COURTNEY TODD ON AS I
CALLERS AT THIS TIME.
MENTIONED THIS TO YOU BEFORE
THANK YOU COURTNEY TODD ON AS I
THE MEETING STARTED MATT OR
MENTIONED THIS TO YOU BEFORE
BRANT I THINK IN NOVEMBER THE
THE MEETING STARTED MATT OR
DECEMBER MEETING MENTIONED THAT
BRANT I THINK IN NOVEMBER THE
THE CITY WANTED TO DO A NEW
DECEMBER MEETING MENTIONED THAT
ANOTHER TRAINING SESSION AND I
THE CITY WANTED TO DO A NEW
WOULD POINT OUT THAT THE
ANOTHER TRAINING SESSION AND I
EXCEPTION OF CANDICE DAVE AND I
WOULD POINT OUT THAT THE
THINK MYSELF ALL THE MEMBERS
EXCEPTION OF CANDICE DAVE AND I
OF THE ZONING BOARD HAVE
THINK MYSELF ALL THE MEMBERS
ARRIVED SINCE THE LAST TRAINING
OF THE ZONING BOARD HAVE
SESSION AND I THINK ONE WOULD
ARRIVED SINCE THE LAST TRAINING
BE IN ORDER I'M GOING TO SET
SESSION AND I THINK ONE WOULD
OUT A SURVEY POLL THIS WEEK OR
BE IN ORDER I'M GOING TO SET
THIS WEEK OR NEXT WEEK AND GIVE
OUT A SURVEY POLL THIS WEEK OR
SEVERAL DATES AND YOU GUYS CAN
THIS WEEK OR NEXT WEEK AND GIVE
ALL RESPOND THE DATES AND SEE
SEVERAL DATES AND YOU GUYS CAN
IF I CAN WORK OUT SOME THAT
ALL RESPOND THE DATES AND SEE
FITS EVERYONE'S CALENDAR SINCE
IF I CAN WORK OUT SOME THAT
EVERYONE'S GOT SO MANY
FITS EVERYONE'S CALENDAR SINCE
DIFFERENT DATES I'LL I'LL PUT
EVERYONE'S GOT SO MANY
PROBABLY THREE OUT.
DIFFERENT DATES I'LL I'LL PUT
I THINK I DID THAT THE LAST I
PROBABLY THREE OUT.
DO IT'S CALLED SURVEY MONKEY SO
I THINK I DID THAT THE LAST I
IF YOU SEE A SURVEY MONKEY I
DO IT'S CALLED SURVEY MONKEY SO
THINK IT'S CALLED IN YOUR EMAIL
IF YOU SEE A SURVEY MONKEY I
BOX IT'S NOT SPAM IT'S COMING
THINK IT'S CALLED IN YOUR EMAIL
FROM ME AND I'M TRYING TO JUST
BOX IT'S NOT SPAM IT'S COMING
GET A FIRM DATE.
FROM ME AND I'M TRYING TO JUST
WHERE ARE WE GOING TO HAVE A
GET A FIRM DATE.
RETREAT AND IT'LL BE MYSELF AND
WHERE ARE WE GOING TO HAVE A
THE PLANNING MANAGER AND
RETREAT AND IT'LL BE MYSELF AND
HOPEFULLY SOMEONE FROM THE CITY
THE PLANNING MANAGER AND
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AS WELL JUST
HOPEFULLY SOMEONE FROM THE CITY
KIND OF THE SAME THING AND
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AS WELL JUST
WE'LL PROBABLY HAVE SOME SNACKS
KIND OF THE SAME THING AND
OR FOOD AND WE WILL AND I ALSO
WE'LL PROBABLY HAVE SOME SNACKS
REQUEST THAT, YOU KNOW, YOU
OR FOOD AND WE WILL AND I ALSO
SUPPLIED ME WITH SOME QUESTIONS
REQUEST THAT, YOU KNOW, YOU
YOU MAY HAVE SO THAT WE CAN
SUPPLIED ME WITH SOME QUESTIONS
RESPOND TO THEM PRIOR BEFORE WE
YOU MAY HAVE SO THAT WE CAN
GO SO WE'RE NOT SCRAMBLING FOR
RESPOND TO THEM PRIOR BEFORE WE
ANSWERS.
GO SO WE'RE NOT SCRAMBLING FOR
WE'LL KNOW THAT THE ANSWERS TO
ANSWERS.
YOUR QUESTIONS WILL BE
WE'LL KNOW THAT THE ANSWERS TO
HOPEFULLY A GOOD TRAINING
YOUR QUESTIONS WILL BE
SESSION SINCE WE DO HAVE SO
HOPEFULLY A GOOD TRAINING
MANY NEW MEMBERS AS WELL.
SESSION SINCE WE DO HAVE SO
IS THAT ANSWER THAT CALL YOUR
MANY NEW MEMBERS AS WELL.
QUESTION OR SUPPLEMENTARY
IS THAT ANSWER THAT CALL YOUR
STATEMENT.
QUESTION OR SUPPLEMENTARY
THAT'S GREAT.
STATEMENT.
YES.
THAT'S GREAT.
CAN I JUST I'D LIKE TO MAKE AN
YES.
ANNOUNCEMENT THE THE SIXTY
CAN I JUST I'D LIKE TO MAKE AN
FIRST ANNUAL AND I WOULD FILM
ANNOUNCEMENT THE THE SIXTY
FESTIVAL AN INTERNATIONALLY
FIRST ANNUAL AND I WOULD FILM
RENOWNED EXPERIMENT A FILM
FESTIVAL AN INTERNATIONALLY
FESTIVAL IS LAUNCHED LAST NIGHT
RENOWNED EXPERIMENT A FILM
AND RUNS THROUGH SUNDAY.
FESTIVAL IS LAUNCHED LAST NIGHT
THE WINNERS ARE GOING TO BE
AND RUNS THROUGH SUNDAY.
SHOWN ON SUNDAY.
THE WINNERS ARE GOING TO BE
I'D LIKE TO INVITE ALL OF MY
SHOWN ON SUNDAY.
COLLEAGUES TO GO TO A SHOW.
I'D LIKE TO INVITE ALL OF MY
I HAVE SOME PROGRAM HERE WHICH
COLLEAGUES TO GO TO A SHOW.
I'LL OFFER TO YOU AND TICKETS
I HAVE SOME PROGRAM HERE WHICH
SO I COULD GIVE TWO TICKETS TO
I'LL OFFER TO YOU AND TICKETS
EACH OF YOU OR ANY OF YOU AS
SO I COULD GIVE TWO TICKETS TO
YOU'D LIKE AND BE ABLE TO TAKE
EACH OF YOU OR ANY OF YOU AS
IN THIS RENOWNED
YOU'D LIKE AND BE ABLE TO TAKE
INTERNATIONALLY RENOWNED FILM
IN THIS RENOWNED
FESTIVAL OR AT LEAST ONE
INTERNATIONALLY RENOWNED FILM
PROGRAM FOR THANK YOU.
FESTIVAL OR AT LEAST ONE
TAKE ANY OTHER COMMENTS SO
PROGRAM FOR THANK YOU.
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
TAKE ANY OTHER COMMENTS SO
SO THANK YOU CHRIS SUPPORT.
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
YES, THANK YOU TED ALLEN FAVOR
SO THANK YOU CHRIS SUPPORT.
I PROPOSED WE ARE ADJOURNED.
YES, THANK YOU TED ALLEN FAVOR
THANKS EVERYBODY.
I PROPOSED WE ARE ADJOURNED.